" All the hay that ' s going this week has all gone from places that have donated one load or up to two loads of hay ," he said .
Under the World Trade Organisation ' s rules Australia can refuse the importation of New Zealand apples if they are able to provide scientific evidence of a substantial disease or pest risk .
Usually the trees don ' t produce fruit until they ' re about five or six years old .
AUSVEG says consumers are still being fooled into thinking they ' re buying Australian products because of false or poor labelling .
He says there is also strong division within the community about whether more or less burning off should be carried out in the national park .
" One time , once people finished working as stockhands or ringers on stations they found their little niche in life , either cooking for the station , or driving the grader or running as a bore runner but that just doesn ' t seem to be happening now ," he said .
" Where allegations are made , no matter how ill - founded or how lacking in evidence we must confront it head - on if we are to retain the confidence of the general public and fulfil our responsibilities to farmers ."
But following his mission to Baghdad , Mr Vaile says Iraq could be ready to take as much as 350 , 000 tons of wheat a month , but cannot confirm any deal or when it may start .
" It ' s an ornamental plant , the same as roses or any plant you have in your garden ," he said .
James Martin : " Economic growth should continue at about 4 per cent , which it has been doing over the last 12 months or so .
I think providing informed choice for that sector , of what they actually do with their lives and their farms and their assets , I think it ' s really important for Australia on social content to be able to allow those people to make informed choice about whether they wish to grow , or not grow and depart ."
" For instance if a snake is hit during the night , you get it first thing in the morning or that very night , by the time the sun gets to them and birds of prey and other things like that , they are smelly and a bit putrid - no one wants to see them in their freezer and they certainly don ' t make good museum specimens !
" It wasn ' t an easy task for me , or even for the town , but the town actually was great , like the town accepted me and welcomed me so that made my life much easier ," he said .
Those heavy losses in the far north are expected to drive the price of bananas to above $ 40 a carton , or between $ 5 and $ 6 a kilo .
" We ' ve got a very very clear message that people want single desk and at this point in time they are not including how or who the manager will be ," Mr Hastings said .
" Even in the past day or so it ' s been talked about in the United States that Iraq is essentially looking around for another 300 , 000 tonnes of wheat out of the United States , which suggests they may be starting to look in other directions if business hasn ' t been concluded ."
" Moreover this would be the worst thing possible for the devastated banana industry that bananas came in from overseas on a faulty or hastily decided science ."
The report says rural Australians are less likely to finish school , more likely to die from alcohol abuse or be affected by domestic violence , or suffer mental illness .
A total of 5 , 900 barley growers were sent out the South Australian Farmers Federation ' s barley ballot , asking growers whether they wanted to retain the single desk or complete deregulation .
Only farms that are incorporated or in Victoria will be able to negotiate under the new laws but the National Farmers Federation ( NFF ) says it will be encouraging farmers to incorporate so they can access the changes .
" It ' s now going to germinate a lot of the seed bank that we think that was there that we haven ' t seen germinate in probably the last six or seven years when we haven ' t had rain ," she said .
" It is classical biocontrol in that the parasite really knocks the pest down by 80 to 90 or 95 per cent but there is just enough to survive to maintain the parasite as well as the pest populations .
" There was up to 900 acres of corn sown and 60 or 70 acres of sorghum that had about three or four foot of water go over it and appears to be buggered altogether ."
" I sort of did a lap around earlier in the day and a lot of them which haven ' t had any water in them for the best part of 10 years or even more some of them ," Mr Baillie said .
Frank O ' Connor , from the Australian Super Fine Wool Growers Association , says he is not confident the plan will get the support or the half million dollars it needs to get off the ground .
Pork given a health lift Researchers in the United States have found a new way for humans to take omega 3 oils , by eating pork or bacon .
The Iraqi Grains Board told reporters overnight it had signed a contract to buy 500 , 000 tonnes of wheat at $ US190 a tonne or around $ US130 million in total .
But the consortium dealing with Iraq , Wheat Australia is not confirming details of the deal or that the Iraqi Grains Board has signed a contract .
Weather forecaster Gavin Edmonds says by late tomorrow or Friday morning cyclone Glenda will be very close to the Pilbara coast .
" What we ' d really like to be able to do is to tell the farmer whether the climate conditions in the coming six months would be really good for growing or not ," Mr McIntosh said .
" I know quite a few properties that have turned off water to their trees , they just can ' t continue to lose profit every year like that and they need to make a decision to either keep going and lose money or just get out of the industry ."
Jail threat for farmers employing illegal workers Farmers and business operators who knowingly or recklessly employ illegal workers could go to jail under new laws announced by the Federal Government .
But Senator Vanstone says only employers and labour suppliers who deliberately assist or exploit illegal workers need to fear the laws .
Sonja Mitchell from aviation company Sling Air , in the far north of Western Australia , says the cards are a huge cost and it is difficult to justify the security benefits , " All it means really is extra cost , It has no obvious safety or security benefit at all , especially in a town like Kununurra ," she said .
" The amount of methane released is only a very small amount or the carbon equivalent taken up .
" One classic example of this is how we collect or survey information about infection in animals and how that is done independently from collecting material about disease in humans ," he said .
WA ' s north - west mops up after Glenda Western Australia ' s north - west is mopping up after its fourth cyclone of the year which has spared the region from major damage or flooding .
" But what I would say is that if you change it you have to be very careful when you change or you effect change because in fact a lot of it is wrapped up in the intellectual and brain power of the people you employ to deliver the excess returns to you ."
The group also wants AWB sanctioned if it is found to have violated US trade law or World Trade Organisation ( WTO ) rules .
Exporters can protect themselves against interest rate rise : strategist Talk in the financial markets this week is not good news for farmers or the resource sector .
Just days after asking the Bush administration to probe whether the AWB violated US laws or WTO trade rules , top Senate Agriculture Committee Democrat Tom Harkin has cited US cables first disclosed in the Cole investigation .
" We ' ll be working with their buying teams and their sales associates , because why would a consumer pay a premium for something if they don ' t understand the benefits and a good sales man or woman needs to be able to explain to a consumer why you ' re going to pay more for a product ."
" It ' s two markets , there are the good wools and unfortunately due to seasonal conditions the buyers are having tremendous trouble being able to find enough wool to make batches up that are sound , or of the right quality ," he said .
The Scottish Government has set up a surveillance zone and banned the movement of birds in or out of the area .
" Whether or not the effects will be what ' s desired for the outcome , whether control would be better than eradication , I ' d say eradication would sound the better idea .
Professor Mark Burgman says part of his job is working out the best way to keep Australia free of diseases like foot and mouth or bird flu .
" We have just been basically tagging animals be they crazy or calm and what it has had is impacts on reproductive rate ," he said .
" Just going through previous videos and competitions that have been held and I guess analysing and picking out the good points and some of the better things to do or try , and do on the day ," he said .
" If we work cooperatively we ' ll find a way to strike the balance between conservation or environment and production ."
The NFF has welcomed the announcement , and says the scheme should not be viewed as a cash handout or production subsidy .
" Just hoping we can control or minimise the vector which is the silverleaf greenhouse ," he said .
" It ' s not one of our largest markets in terms of volume or value but we do send quite a significant amount of mandarins and valencias as well ," she said .
I didn ' t see rorts cables : Howard Prime Minister John Howard has told the Cole inquiry he does not believe he received or read any cables that warned AWB was involved in sanctions - busting .
Wine grapes dumped as oversupply woes hit growers Tens of thousands of tonnes of Riverland wine grapes will be dumped on the ground or left to rot on the vine this season because of the national oversupply .
Easter gifts may post disease risk : AQIS The Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service ( AQIS ) is warning that Easter gifts from overseas , such as painted or blown eggs , could spread bird flu to humans and birds .
He says many come from Eastern Europe or the Mediterranean and could introduce bird flu , Newcastle disease or other viruses capable of devastating Australia ' s poultry industry .
" But the other side of that too is that demand for things like ethanol or biodiesel that creates further demand for oilseeds and grains as well .
Call for bureaucrat or MP to act as AWB ' moral conscience ' The Queensland Nationals are calling for changes at the top of AWB to help protect the single desk for wheat exports .
Member for Hinkler Paul Neville wants a bureaucrat or government MP on AWB ' s board to act as its " moral conscience " to stop future kickback controversies .
" For that reason I ' d be more comfortable if we had a government appointee or someone from the public service on that board ."
It is starting to hit farm families when they try to expand , relocate or retire , because of rising property prices .
" Most people had given up on mutton a long , long time ago and then one or two people , his Royal Highness Prince Charles particularly , decided it was time we moved this thing on a bit ," he said .
" I think the next couple of months are very critical , I think it ' s make or break as far as the world wheat market goes for the next 12 months , depending on particularly rain conditions in the hard red winter wheat belt of the United States ," she said .
" I think it ' s difficult to see significant change to current crop prices , however over the next few weeks attention is going to be turning more so to the new crop production prospects in the northern hemisphere and at the moment there are one or two concerns on the horizon ," he said .
" The way that the proposed legislation is , there ' s no difference in penalties for a fairly minor transgression or a major $ 10 million one if you ' re an agent .
" News out of both Belgium and Holland that that wheat bug has been found and they are saying it arrived hitchhiking on New Zealand apples or New Zealand apple packaging ," he said .
" Whether that ' s true or not I don ' t know but it just highlights the concern that one of the processes has to be fumigation because while wheat bug may not affect the Batlow or the Australian apple and pear industry it would sure as hell play havoc on the Australian wheat industry ."
Ester has been around for what 50 or 60 years and I ' m getting a bit sick of these experts in Canberra trying to put their ideas on the rest of the world ," he said .
" Most organisations tend to be populated by middle - aged men who are about to retire in a year or two ' s time so we ' re staring down the barrel of an even worse shortage in a couple of years from now ," he said .
" We asked the question : ' Do you think the Prime Minister John Howard acted ethically on this issue or not '.
" It came through the house about fourteen or fifteen inches ... had to walk across the airstrip to get over on a bit of high ground .
" We don ' t believe for a moment it got there on apples it must have got there on some other commodity that ' s not cool stored or on the clothing of tourists ," he said .
" That means you sometimes duplicate things because you can ' t afford to fail , so we ' ve had , you know , three or four different fronts moving forward at once , even though we may only need one or two of those .
" The processors are dealing opportunistically with growers and abusing their market power but they haven ' t seen fit , or the tribunal hasn ' t seen fit , to go the extra step and give us [ the ] right to have countervailing power .
Regional family day care operators fear for future Family day care operators in many regional areas are worried they could be forced to reduce services or even close within months because of funding shortfalls .
I don ' t believe that we ' ll be funded to the same level as we have been and I think that we will either have to look at offering less of a service or closing all together ," she said .
" It ' s not just independent grape growers or contracted , or uncontracted , grape growers who supply to wineries would be concerned ," he said .
" But if you simply change the ratio and you can do that in one or two ways - incorporating high quality protein items in the diet and by that I mean lean meat or fish or high quality vegetable proteins ," he said .
" It will be an interesting read and whether or not it ever becomes public policy I wouldn ' t know ," he said .
There is now an under supply , but that has only turned up in the last year or so ."
" Commodity prices globally really haven ' t gone anywhere over the last 12 months or if anything perhaps have eased a bit ," he said .
" But perhaps the real significance is what we can ' t control and that is the rainfall out there and that is really going to be the driving factor of whether farmers have a good year or not ."
Previously farmers could only buy water attached to land or from government - run irrigation schemes .
" We can ' t really provide further details until we have met with our customers and hopefully we ' ll have further information later this week or early next week ."
" I think the majority of customers would understand because they ' d be under some similar price pressures themselves , particularly those that have a lot of vehicles on the road , whether they be stock and station agents or whether they be farmers or others ," he said .
" There is no question in my mind that when the allocations of water were made in Queensland over the last 2O to 30 years , little or no regard was had to the downstream consequences in New South Wales ," he said .
" Very simply Certified Australian Angus Beef does not own an animal or a kilogram of beef ," he said .
Three options were investigated by the State Government , involving a water pipeline , a canal or transport by sea .
" It looks worse because they ' re sort of tall and hairy looking so that doesn ' t tend to look , compared to the other , pasture plants or whatever ."
So the growers do their figures as to whether they grow again or whether they give the land a spell , or whether they go into another crop or another enterprise .
" People can keep a handle on whether the cattle herd is going up or down ."
" We can probably see 20 per cent retracement of the losses that we ' ve seen in this market over the last four or five weeks , particularly in the finer end of the market ," he said .
He hopes the meeting will help growers make choices about their future and believes the issues are bigger than just one state or one sector .
" But any further rise in petrol prices or indeed in interest rates would probably be sufficient to eliminate the benefits of the Budget tax cut altogether ."
Many local growers could not sell their fruit this year , with wineries suspending or not renewing contracts .
With no relief in sight , growers say they could prune heavily or use chemicals to hinder fruit growth to hibernate vines instead of having to pull them out .
Under the Outback Links program , retired travellers are helping to fix the plumbing , or mind children on outback stations , in exchange for a taste of remote living .
" Politics is about numbers and if someone wants to commit to the ideals and the philosophies of our particular party or our government then they ' re most welcome , so I ' d keep an open mind on that particular matter ," he said .
" I don ' t see any further risk or downside risk for wool at this stage ," he said .
" The problem that we face is that under the Native Title Act , a native title claim is extinguished when there is an existing licence or lease ," he said .
The document also states that although there were warning signs , AWB did not challenge the payments and for this they are truly sorry , and deeply regrets any damage this may have caused to Australia ' s trading reputation , the Australian Government or the United Nations .
" There may well be some Australian stockmen or vets or locally employed and trusted staff ," he said .
" So if they ' re sent to a saleyard or abattoir the database doesn ' t have the correct information about where they are .
" We thought they would dissipate that effect by having a maximum cap of 5 per cent or 10 per cent that any one party could own .
Dr Ross Maxwell from the Rural Doctors Association says it is easier to check the qualifications rather than those of health professionals from Africa or India .
Some have not had a decent drop of rain since July last year , forcing them to either sell or agist most of their cattle interstate .
It has rejected suggestions its inexperience in Iraq was a factor or because the wheat came from AWB ' s national pool .
" It ' s now necessary that the Government in its ambition to ensure that the trade is maintained to go to Brooks Grain or one of the , as some refer to them , the foreign devils , be given every opportunity to see if they can stitch up a deal and it should be the Government ' s , if necessary , urgent legislation to make sure that deliveries can be obtained ," he said .
Demand for alpaca wool increasing If you have got an alpaca or two running around the backyard , you are being urged to shear it and sell the fleece .
John Bentley , from the Australian Alpaca Association , says because the animals are valued as pets , or guard animals , there is less focus on their fleece .
Wheat futures near all - time highs A global share market fall in mineral and energy stocks is having unexpected benefits for wheat prices , with futures markets at or near all - time highs .
Flooding cuts off the community of Wadeye for six months of every year and with only sea or air access it is hard for police to reach .
" Yesterday when we came in there was about 30 or 40 people all at our front gate ," he said .
Since there there have been complaints of time delays and ongoing debate over whether the equipment or the agents are to blame .
" The decisions that we make about planting today really has an impact in five years ' time or beyond ," he said .
" They will hopefully be able to processing , 70 or 80 or anything up to 100 a day if they want to , in due time ," he said .
Ninety per cent of the state is now in drought or considered marginal .
" Parents were really worried about losing our year sevens because our schools go from preschool to year sevens , because it ' s really to send the kids away to boarding school in year six , or at the end of year six , is really they are just little kids basically ( aged 11 or 12 years )," she said .
" My plea to anyone who ' s changing the act is for goodness sake make it clear just precisely what the role of the Wheat Export Authority or its successor body may have ," he said .
" That would go a long way towards compensating growers not to sell their fruit at 100 or 200 dollars a tonne ," he said .
" There ' s been some research done on alternatives and that was to use softer chemicals and the other one was to use steam generators to steam the soil , or to use solarisation where they plough it in the hotter climates and let the sun get rid of nematodes and problems in the soil ," he said .
Whilst many of the passengers are traumatised and are carrying the bare minimum in the haste to escape the unrest , all bags are being X - rayed or searched for exotic plants like siam and khaki weed , and diseases such as grapevine leaf rust .
" It gives us the opportunity also to maybe expand our wine operations or buy other properties that are closer to the VRDs and the Kimberley properties that we already have ," she said .
It is unclear whether the private member ' s bill will receive the support of the Government or the Opposition .
The report finds nearly two thirds of dairy farmers are looking to increase the scale of their operations but many smaller operators are selling out or changing to beef or crops .
" Governments don ' t realise that we ' ve been beaten up by four or five years of drought ," he said .
" What tends to happen in this situation , which is a very unusual situation , most growers haven ' t previously been in this state , or these conditions previously , is that you start the program and you continue on ," he said .
Professor Phil Hynd from the University of Adelaide says lambs are usually culled because they have uneven wool , no crimp or bare patches .
" Occasionally of course we will detect cysts and we can normally trace them back to sheep or cattle imported from the mainland , in this particular case we found it in an animal which was born and bred in Tasmania ," he said .
A large amount of fruit was left to rot in vineyards or sold below the cost of production .
That said though there ' s been a lot of fruit left on the vine or worked into the ground and had that all been processed we probably would have had another record this year ."
' It ' s going to be a sort of topsy - turvy , or spasmodic , winter .
Exports were to begin this week , but officials are concerned beef destined for South Korea will be processed in the same plants as beef from foreign animals , or cattle over 30 months of age .
" For the last three or four mornings we ' ve tarped the whole dairy in and we ' ve got a little bit of a heater in there which warms it up by about a degree , but for the last three mornings we ' ve spent the first two to three hours defrosting the machines and getting all the electronics working ," Mr Jones said .
" You know there ' s not too many pastoralists that I know south of Alice that don ' t take the weekend off to come and watch the Finke Desert Race or , you know , a lot of them have got family or family members competing in it as well ," he said .
Production estimates now total just over 1 . 8 billion bushels , or more than 48 million tonnes .
Ahead of a national wine summit held in Melbourne on Friday , industry groups were looking for partial compensation from the Government to help growers mothball or hibernate their vines .
" You ' re either industry and your going to make some profits or your probably ought to get out . "
" At the moment , because we haven ' t found anymore plants , we are not able to say whether this is a widespread infestation or simply quite local ," he said .
Southern Rural Water has cut water allocations to the Bacchus Marsh and Werribee irrigation districts to between zero and 5 per cent , leaving growers without water , or using recycled waste water .
Results on mad cow disease research may take years Scientists say it could take years to work out whether there is a new strain of mad cow disease or whether the original virus has mutated .
Livestock producers warned over feeding requirements The Western Australian Department of Agriculture is warning livestock producers to either reduce sheep numbers or pay closer attention to feeding requirements .
Victorian farmer Josh Pearse , who has set up a plant at Donald , in the state ' s west , says taxing biodiesel at the same level as ordinary diesel is a disincentive to farmers making or using it .
It may be that we will find sequentially a number of small infestations over a period of you know it could be 12 months or even possibly longer ," he said .
In Victoria ' s north - east , several farmers are shooting sheep , or selling stock below market prices .
Director of Hume Corridor Community Health , Wayne Weaire , is organising community barbeques in the region to support farmers : " In the last drought we found that people if they became isolated from each other , if they simply worked hard on farm or simply sat around wondering what they could do there were enormous amounts of stress ," he said .
" It just has an impact on the whole sense of well being on the family or the individual and we found last time the greatest lesson was how important it is to get out there and talk and get access to information and support from each other and from other agencies ."
But Federal Agriculture Minister , Peter McGauran , rejects the idea of governments buying water through licences , allocations or options .
A conference in Melbourne , looking at the future of food , has been told consumers will pay more for produce that offers added benefits like higher calcium or antioxidants .
" There is certainly the potential for individual dairy farms or collections of dairy farms to produce milk that is customised for an end use ," he said .
Court ruling delays Cole inquiry findings The Cole inquiry into wheat exporter AWB is now not expected to deliver its findings until September or October .
" They could have a significant effect to the extent that if tax treatment became more generous then you would presume that that would make the industry more viable or if they were to go the other way it would be less viable ," he said .
Most of those , or nearly all of those were from Indonesia .
Use of brown coal could reduce greenhouse emissions , study shows A research project into the use of brown or dirty coal could reduce Australia ' s greenhouse emissions from power generation to close to zero in the next decade .
" We wouldn ' t have had a good general summer rain probably for four or five years now , in some areas it ' s been up to six years ," she said .
" I can tell you that the Iraqi Trade Minister saw the Australian ambassador and the Iraqi Trade Minister told our ambassador that he did not want this incident to interfere with the bilateral relationship or to affect our trade relationship ," he said .
" We had nothing to gain or benefit from concluding one way or the other , but on reviewing all of the available evidence that we could gather , and I mean all of the available evidence not just snippets of it here and there , we really couldn ' t come to any other conclusion ."
" We had an excess of this product [ and ] because our product doesn ' t contain any preservatives or additives , it doesn ' t have an indefinite shelf life ," he said .
" It ' s obviously blown in with the wind or somebody else has been driving around the farm ," he said .
" Secondly , he found that there needs to be better definition of the way that the minister consults with AQIS , or doesn ' t consult with them , but it needs to be defined in law because at the moment there is a big hole in the law over that ."
On average we eat 169 eggs each per year , a long way below the Japanese , who eat 350 , or the Americans , who consume 260 eggs each .
" Just over 80 per cent of Australia ' s production is represented in caged eggs and that has a price point attached to it which is relatively lower than that price point attached to barn - laid or free - range eggs ," Mr Kellaway said .
" We don ' t sell whole carcasses to the Japanese or South Koreans , or anyone ... we sell cuts that , largely , we don ' t have the large demand for here in the US - short ribs , plates and so - forth - the fattier items ," he said .
The research , which looked at wire strike accidents where planes hit power lines or other wires , found 65 per cent of low level flying accidents happened in farming .
Until now all rice grown in New South Wales has had to be sold through the single desk held by Sunrice or the Ricegrowers Co - operative .
Food safety standards need continual improvement , say scientists The safety of the food that we eat is emerging as a crucial global trade issue , which can open or block access to markets .
The ABC understands the initial case may cover just 20 or so farmers but has the potential to see thousands of US and Canadian farmers join them .
But he says if AWB ' s export monopoly or its veto over grain export applications is removed , wheat growers will be the losers .
" The bulk veto , I think , is a core component of the single desk as we know it and if we have people wanting to send wheat into Indonesia or Malaysia or any of our core markets you ' ll have Australian wheat competing with Australian wheat ," he said .
" We used to get bananas from north like Innisfail and Tully but for the moment there ' s no bananas coming from there and there ' s no mangoes or anything like that ," he said .
" But , it certainly gives an idea of how productivity can be related to use of the resources or trapping of the resources available .
" Whether it ' s the actual vegetation , the soils or the nutrients in the soil ."
" We ' ve got many different grower - owned or funded companies and they ' re all heading off in their own directions ," he said .
That will force canneries to either import tin or look for alternative packaging .
" When trains run empty and ships are coming back from China , or in the Pilbarra , or in the coal fields of Queensland , the return trip for these giant empty trains and ships is 45 per cent of the total trip cost and that is highly inefficient and using fuels unnecessarily ," he said .
" There ' s many drivers being poached from Australia and have gone to either the United Kingdom or the United States to drive .
Cattle which have not been run with dairy cows for five years , or grazed on land which has run dairy cattle within 12 months , will meet the classification .
" We also didn ' t actually notice very much difference in power or torque .
" The trees don ' t take the usual say four or five years to come into production - they come into production very easily ," he said .
" Unfortunately there ' s not enough room for all of us in a small town like Northampton or Geraldton .
" I think everyone knows the answer would be no , so whether John stays or not is a different issue .
The Queensland Government had planned to buy the farms to return water to the Murray Darling Basin , but withdrew because it did not have the support of the New South Wales or Federal Governments .
" We don ' t generally recognise judgments from foreign countries which are punitive or designed to punish defendents , we only recognise judgments which are compensatory , where a sum of money is provided in compensation for losses ," he said .
It is hoped the research can be used to develop bio - sensor technology , which will be used to test grapes at the vineyard or weighbridge .
" All the other mahogany plantations , which have more or less been trial plantations are all dry - land ," he said .
Associate Professor Robert Baker says fewer sunspots or cold patches on the surface of the sun may mean the eastern states are headed for drier times in the long term .
New fruit fly protocols in Taiwan have closed that market and growers cannot get fruit into China , the US or New Zealand .
" Perhaps there ' s a sense there of ' well we ' ll go and do this while it ' s in town , or we ' ll take up the opportunity to go to a performance '," he said .
Elders rural property expert John Peden says the softer market is more a correction than a direct result of drought or lower farm incomes .
" The stuff that we did sow only about 20 or 30 per cent has actually come up , the rest of it is still in the ground , things are looking pretty grim ," he said .
" If there is a breach of the code or if there is some questions on the code the ASX will ask questions behind the scenes ," he said .
7th mad cow disease case detected in Canada The seventh case of BSE or mad cow disease has been detected in Canada .
Name change for sherry , port labels Australia ' s wine industry will no longer use sherry or port on their labels to try to gain better access to the European market .
" Not one tree will be cut down or one tree planted as a result of this project ," he said .
The move was not supported by exporters or Sydney - based brokers , but Melbourne broker Don Fraser says it was vital to keep the auction rooms open .
The most recent shipment arrive after a 16 - day journey from Fremantle , with no evidence of foot soreness or too much heat stress , and are fed water that is specially cooled by big refrigeration units .
" Queensland Health has said that there is nothing wrong with any of the systems or any of the ways we manufacture or produce the product ," he said .
" Unfortunately we will run out of fruit for probably a week or less , which means that some supermarkets may go to South Africa but look there is a shortage of fruit in the United States ," he said .
French suppliers [ are ] buying five kilo per capita per year which is very low and we could multiply this by two or three , easily ."
While state governments could take weeks or months to collate drought information under the old application process , John Sims from the Bureau of Rural Sciences says the new system will take minutes .
David Miles from the Victorian Farmers Federation ' s pig group says any disease or food safety risks will be identified with the new pass .
If we haven ' t got traceability well we ' re not going to be able to export or do anything professionally and it will control the industry , as I understand , and the VFF pig group we ' re quite happy with this ," he said .
" It certainly extends its range by a few hundred kilometres , but probably doesn ' t stop them being an endangered or threatened species simply because the habitat they live in is so restricted and unique that any disturbance to that could soon cause a crash in their population ," he said .
" One farmer said that it ' s a bit like grief or having a death in the family , but there ' s no burial , because every day you stand on the porch and you look out at the body , as it were ," he said .
He says many irrigators are focusing on crops , which give them a higher return , or selling their water .
Public interest tests urged before hospital closures The Australian Medical Association ( AMA ) wants all state governments to introduce public interest tests before downgrading or closing any more public hospitals in rural areas .
" We want to see the impact of employment on the community when people have to travel with sick children to the cities and give up their jobs for days or weeks , and we want to see the availability of alternative resources all factored into the equation ."
I think a lot of the road trains , whether they are RTA or Hampton ' s , operate very much like a taxi rank .
There ' s many in the outlying areas that have really only had one good season in the last five or six and , really , that ' s just not enough to get back on your feet ," he said .
" I believe the states ' opposition to genetically modified crops is purely philosophical or ideological , it makes no economic or environmental sense ," he said .
" Basically someone out there , or persons , or person , I don ' t know , is holding us all to ransom ," he said .
Anybody can shear a sheep or come into a shearing shed , wool handle , press , class , if you are fit and keen enough to get out there and earn a bit of money ."
" We can ' t be voting on a level of wool tax for the next three years if we don ' t know what the company will look like or what its goals will be ."
The strategy , to be finalised by the end of the year , will emphasise the need for ongoing training and accreditation in pest control , whether it be for wild dogs or cane toads .
" I think the processors have to start reviewing it now because the milk ' s price has to move forward or else on one of the processors here in Western Australia will find themselves without milk ," he said .
" As people may have noticed it ' s been way south , it gives us a lot of easterlies or south easterlies on to the Queensland coast , but also tends to bring in a bit more moisture than might normally be the case .
But he says those who have recently acquired a new property or increased their borrowings may feel the pinch .
Senate committee examines petrol collusion claims Widespread rumours of collusion or price fixing between petrol companies will be examined by a Senate committee in Canberra today .
" If you don ' t have enough product for the customers they tend to just cancel the container and go to India or somewhere else ," she said .
" Right now when you say to somebody ' wine ', we think 750 millilitres in a glass bottle with a stopper of some sort , in Australia it might have a screw cap , other places might have a cork or a synthetic ," he said .
" I ' m very conscious of the fact that Gordon should not be in any way , shape or form deemed to have been involved in anything that ' s gone before us at AWB ," he said .
Public concern over the high cost of petrol and diesel is expected to be a major issue at the gathering , although Prime Minister John Howard has ruled out cutting the federal fuel excise or subsidies for rural motorists .
" If it was in Perth or Melbourne or Sydney it would just be another conference ," he said .
" It ' s not a very nice thing to do , to chop open a rabbit and take out a bit of liver , but we only need a little piece , about maybe a thumbnail size , chucked in a bottle and thrown into a freezer labelled and then call the local authority responsible for animal or plant control and let them know they have one ," he said .
" I think on the first race , I ' m not exactly sure but I was told I had about four lengths before the second horses , and on the second one I was a bit closer to the other horse , I think about two or three lengths as well in front of them ," winner Alienor le Gouvello du Timat said .
" Everything becomes short - term , the long - term blue sky projects just get left on the shelf and everything ' s about chasing earnings for this year or next year ."
" Rarely seen such a buoyant period , you ' ve really had four or five years where the industry has been what you could describe as buoyant ," he said .
The Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority is recommending that diazinon no longer be used to dip or jet sheep .
They ' ve been making ethanol for quite some time , but all the new capacity or much of the new capacity is small start - up operations , groups of farmers going together investing in ethanol plants and there ' s not much organisation today to all the ethanol plants that are out there and time will tell .
Early on , four or five years ago , capital was a problem and you just worked and worked and worked to try and find enough money to build an ethanol plant .
Whereas five or 10 years ago it was terribly difficult to raise that money , today you ' re hearing stories of people raising that kind of money in 30 and 60 day periods .
" In a drought it ' s more important than ever that everyone sticks to the rules because the rivers are very stressed the other users are typically on low or nil irrigation requirements ," he said .
" I think we ' ve got the right to continue with the farming that we ' ve been doing for probably 40 years , and people before us , and people after us without having to worry about who ' s coming and going , and opening , and shutting gates , or maybe not shutting gates and all that sort of thing ," she said .
Sunbeam won ' t renew currant contracts Australia ' s largest dried fruit processor says it will not renew or issue new contracts for currants .
" I think we were hopeful that the Greek crop might be diminished this year or that some sort of political trading resolution would have come and the situation would have eased ," he said .
Matthew Miller has found that feeding pattersons curse , or salvation jane , to salmon significantly increases their levels of the healthy oils .
" Given the problems we have had over the last three or four months , and the efforts that the fellows have put into putting in a new agreement in place to make the plant more efficient and that .
Senior economist Manjula Luthria says the the islanders need the work or some Pacific economies could collapse .
" Due to the nature of TB you can always have a infection hidden out there but it ' s very unlikely given the fact that for the last 10 or so years if we have found infection we have been removing all the animals that have been exposed to that infected animal ," he aid .
" If we can get these animals from eggs through the larval phase and through the grow out phase to harvesting in a very short time , or in a short time , you ' re going to have a higher profit margin than one that takes extremely long ," he said .
Farmers question fuel package benefits The Federal Government has pumped $ 1 . 5 billion into a plan to tackle high fuel prices , but there are questions over whether the farm or transport sectors will benefit .
" We ' d have to spray the weeds within the plantation or we would have to slash round the outside of the plantation .
" We ' ve also taken product quality samples or flesh samples so we ' re looking at how long or how red it stays for in shelf life .
But the National Management Group ( NMG ) voted against the proposal , suggesting the disease could not be eradicated or contained .
She says the projects are for not for profit organisations and provide an opportunity for people to gain skills that could lead to part time or full time employment .
" There ' s retail , there ' s industrial , there ' s manufacturing , there ' s agriculture , and then there ' s the miriad of service industries which takes in you know your marketing and your promotion and your computer type activities or your technology type activities and we ' re there ," she said .
" He was certainly a very important cog in what wheel , there ' s no question or doubt about that ," he said .
While there is no funding or specific projects yet , Ben Fargher from the National Farmers Federation says it is a significant step .
Mike Johanns has announced that Bayer CropScience of Germany has told the US Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) and the US Food and Drug Administration that the experimental rice poses no threat to humans or the environment .
But Mr Johanns does not know where the contaminated rice was found , how widespread it is , or how it entered the food supply .
" I don ' t think many people would support , for example , privatising catchment management authorities or privatising dams or the sources of water ," he said .
" It ' s not something , for instance , that ' s on the cliffs of views overlooking the Great Ocean Road or the ocean or anything like that .
" Just driving into our property at night - time , usually you wouldn ' t see any rabbits but at the moment we ' re seeing five or six just at the entrance to our property ," he said .
" It started off with about a hundred or so people in its first operation ," he said .
Water use produce labels mooted Products grown in the Murray Darling Basin under best - practice water use could be labelled as such , similar to the Heart Foundation ' s tick or the ' Australian Grown ' labels .
" I can ' t leave because I ' m on a farm or I can ' t leave because I ' m being threatened with deportation .
Early poll results showed more than 60 per cent of voters described NLIS as poor or terrible .
But a day later , after tampering by MLA staff , the poll showed 70 per cent believed the system was good or excellent .
" What this satellite system is going to do is provide a service to those people who can ' t get any form of broadband or high speed Internet access and open up a few other areas like voiceover IP ," he said .
Growers have been angry with the company since it decided to suspend or not renew contracts for more than 100 Sunraysia and Riverland farmers last year .
" Whether it ' s good timing or not I am not sure but these opportunities don ' t arise very often , and when they arise you have got to grab them with both hands ," he said .
" Particularly now that he ' s leader of the Liberal Party and particularly because the water issue , whether Cubbie Station or elsewhere in Queensland is such a high - profile concern ," he said .
" In government there is a likelihood I would have to divest most or all of those holdings ."
" You could just simply label the beef that comes from animals that don ' t have HGPs , so that it could be no HGPs used in the production of this meat , or the second way would be that you could say that they have been used ."
A group of north Queensland growers issued an ultimatum last week in an attempt to force the Government to confirm whether the code will be mandatory or voluntary .
Stripe rust is found on the leaf of wheat plants , in the form of yellow stripes or spores .
" As their national services body Dairy Australia , how are we going to fund the services that we currently have which are imperative for the industry , but also what are we going to do about the issues which are on our doorstep or on the cusp of it , issues that we need to manage as an industry moving forward ?.
" I hope that by the end of the year or the start or the beginning of 2007 we will already have spawning and we certainly will try and apply all the previous knowledge ," she said .
Quarantine protocols hit fruit , vegetable growers The Australian Horticultural Exporters Association says it has never been harder or more expensive to send fruit and vegetables overseas .
It says the value of horticulture exports has fallen $ 230 million , or 30 per cent , since 2003 .
Simon Turner from Turner Aquaculture at Cowell , on the Eyre Peninsula , says without wind or rain , fewer nutrients are being produced in the seawater to make algae , which is a major food source .
Survey suggests city dwellers in the dark about farms A new Landcare survey shows more than 60 per cent of people living in the capital cities have little or no understanding of Australian farms .
But EPA chairman Wally Cox says the project is unlikely to compromise environmental or cultural objectives .
" We can look forward I guess to two or three more weeks , then we ' re looking for quite a bit more rain in the springtime to finish the crops off .
" It ' s been a spectacular rally here , basis levels have driven up relative to US futures dramatically in the last month or so ," he said .
" I was hoping for something a bit more practical , as in some subsidies , maybe for some tanks that we ' re all going to have to buy in order for the water , hopefully that will be carted to us , or that we ' ll cart ourselves .
Farmer hopes for prosthesis for three - legged cow You may have seen a three - legged dog or even a three - legged cat , but what about a three - legged cow ?
" I would suggest that some of the concerns have been that there is probably a lack of understanding or appreciation from a large number of dairy farmers about where their dairy service levy is invested from Dairy Australia ," he said .
" We might see a couple more days of weakness , or even a week of weakness but I ' m sure it will turn around because the fundamentals are still very strong ," he said .
Plant pathologist Jane Ray says the upgrade includes filter systems to ensure that no material escapes or hitchhikes on staff .
" We don ' t think the AWB ' s doing the wrong thing if they ' re being conservative , by any stretch of the imagination , but I think there ' s a lot of growers out there now thinking , well do I put it in the pool , I ' m going to have some real cash flow problems this year , or do I sell for cash ?"
" If the AWB is being conservative by five or so bucks a tonne , then growers won ' t have a problem with that .
" You know , when you look at the longer term share price chart , BHP has come from like , $ 12 or $ 18 to $ 30 , so now it ' s back at $ 26 .
" If you bought in the last 6 months or so you ' re not looking so good but if you bought 3 years ago you ' re still going to double your money ."
" They ' ve put Tibooburra virtually in the same state as one that runs almost to the south coast or Mt Kosciuszko ," he said .
" We ' re seeing a lot of the pastures die and people are now realising they ' ve got six months of summer and they ' re probably looking at March or April to feed sheep .
" They are the most affected by this war because there is killing mostly of men or men are going into the armies .
" The facts need to be on the table - sometimes there are more or less diplomatic ways of getting them on the table , but in the final analysis farmers need to know the facts ," he said .
" People need to be aware that in all of these towns and in fact right across north - eastern Victoria and the corresponding areas on the north of the river , that they shouldn ' t be moving fruit around because there is a risk that fruit fly will be in the fruit or associated with it ," he said .
In handing down his orders , Justice Neil Young said his decision focused on three issues : whether AWB had established its claim , whether that claim had been waived by AWB ' s own internal inquiries and whether any fraud , sham or trickery had taken place .
General manager of Murray Irrigation George Warne is worried that if the Government buys the water it will push up prices or reduce access to water for irrigators .
" Where they just go straight to where they ' re destined for , whether it ' s feedlot , meatworks or breeders ."
Wholesalers concerned about code of conduct exemptions Vegetable growers are concerned that a new mandatory code of conduct for their industry does not cover supermarkets , processors or exporters .
" I haven ' t had that information from the Minister or the Minister ' s office so clearly we would need to talk with them and get a straight story about what ' s going on ."
The group ' s chairman , Australian Trade Minister Mark Vaile , says the level of ambition has not changed and no - one , not even the US , European Union ( EU ) or Japan , has hinted they might abort future discussions .
It is unclear whether he was directly involved in the poll tampering or has taken the fall for others .
" Victoria had over 200 fires last week and New South Wales have 30 or 40 fires today .
" What we mean by increased flexibility is the possibility of exploring for example things like tradeable development rights - that might require exploration of whether or not we can conserve or allow agricultural development to occur in one area if there ' s increased native vegetation conservation in another area ," she said .
" A hive at the moment , if you take it to pollination , is worth anything from 80 to $ 100 per hive , but I ' m afraid it must be from within our own industry that this is happening because John Smith or Joe Blow wouldn ' t dream of going near a bee hive ," she said .
" One of the things we could do was assist those growers that are wanting to have a little bit of a punt on things this season , putting some cotton in where they haven ' t got enough water at this stage or maybe when the price isn ' t that good ," he said .
Businesses can seek up to $ 100 , 000 each to close down or a quarter of a million dollars to redevelop .
Milk company to draw up shortlist of buyers A merger or takeover has not been ruled out for one of Australia ' s main milk companies .
Company chairman Ian Bertram says a shortlist will be drawn up before any decisions are made about mergers or funding help .
It is a tough weekend for Queensland NRL supporters , faced with backing the local Brisbane Broncos , or a team full of ex - Queenslanders , Melbourne Storm .
" I think it ' s a good thing , for the simple fact is , it ' s like anything else , if anybody gets a monopoly , they just seem to charge or do whatever they want to do and I reckon the third company into the business will definitely make the other companies brighten their foot work up ," he said .
" Where there are very , very low call rates , like one call per month or something similar , and where it ' s costing thousands of dollars to maintain a pay phone we ' d probably use our discretion in that regard ," he said .
Farmers will be able to use the Internet to advertise available feed or labour with the site expected to be up and running within two weeks .
" Because of where the mine is located we have a very large water supply that we have to de - water , so we will be looking at a whole range of activity that we can complement their water supply or whatever ," he said .
" Whether that be for irrigation , for industry , for a wetland , or a brewery , [ they have ] ... to be accountable for its use ," he said .
Tas shellfish industry consolidating Tasmania ' s shellfish industry is facing significant generational change , with many family operations selling up or merging .
" We have found a clustering in some occupations with men with high DNA damage and it ' s often associated with men that might come in to exposure with things such as pesticides or solvents and things like that ," she said .
" Country people on the whole we find have always watered at night , or first thing in the morning , they ' ve always mulched and this is something that I think suburban people are beginning to learn and are doing a lot more than they used to ," she said .
Kicking off proceedings today is Land and Water Australia ' s chairman , Bobbie Brazil , looking at if Landcare is an ancient myth or modern dreaming .
" This is a genetic sequencing analyser or as most people would probably understand it from CSI on TV , DNA analysis ," he said .
" We now have a situation seemingly in Tasmania where councils can tell farmers what crops they can or cannot grow on their land ," he said .
It says the current system was set up to deal with one or two - year droughts rather than the series of dry years farmers have faced .
" There ' s no safety data whatsoever to describe their use in people and we just don ' t know what are the effective levels or safety levels ," he said .
" The cyclone went past and did a lot of damage in Maningrida , but in the bush there was only about 15 per cent of the trees were snapped off or toppled over ," Dr Cook said .
" The banks are not in the business of forcing people to get out of their businesses or to sell assets ,'' he said .
" The question here is whether we have done the technical engineering research early enough to have effectively worked out the cracking , the surface slumping and started to look at underground techniques that will allow either the cracks to be sealed up or the cracking to be minimised during the process of mining ," he said .
" It may level out a little bit , probably when the interest rates take a bit of a turn or the cattle market takes a turn ," he said .
Natural resource management a high priority for farmers : survey A new survey by the Australian Bureau of Statistics shows farmers on average spend 121 days of work , or $ 28 , 000 in financial terms , maintaining their properties each year .
" Out of the $ 3 . 3 billion nationally , weed stacked up as the major cost with $ 1 . 3 billion or one third of that being spent on weeds , land and soil issues were $ 900 million and pest issues was $ 720 million ," he said .
" Most growers won ' t be aware of whether they ' ve suffered any damage until probably late this afternoon or in the next couple of days ," he said .
" Health authorities have been concerned since about 2003 that the H5N1 type of influenza of birds , because there ' s so much of it about , that it may be the candidate to mutate or change , that it can go in humans and therefore I guess , in the back of everyone ' s mind , yes that ' s probably a scenario ," he said .
" At least they ' re recognising that they need the rural industry and it is a one in one hundred or probably worse now ," he said .
" I have never heard any reasonable technical or engineering proposal that would say for $ 55 . 5 million or in that ballpark , this is how we can recapture lead and zinc or other acid or heavy metals that are escaped into the river that have been absorbed by fish or dugong , or turtle and polluted the sediment .
" There ' s no scientific or environmental reason why GM cotton shouldn ' t be grown in northern Australia - the issues have been extensively addressed .
" The transport industry in Tasmania will be busier through a drought , which like it or not that ' s our stance on it , but it is an awful thing ," he said .
" One farmer I think is probably going to give up on a 400 or 500 acre paddock of barley .
" It ' s a take it or leave it proposition often .
" The key here is that we don ' t cart wood long distances or else we lose both the economic advantage or more importantly the energy advantage ," he said .
Report author Selwyn Helibron says farmers must focus on how to market their product to their customers , or continue to lose market share .
The last Doha round draft called for banning or phasing out single - desk monopolies , like AWB , by 2013 .
" So I have 100 per cent increase in sale but the next three or four days we won ' t sell anything because most people have their meat stocks in hand .
" They have actually said now that they ' ll pick up the cost of water even though there may be a lot of small hobby farmers and whatever , and I ' m not trying to say they should or shouldn ' t be in it but they are .
" You don ' t have that phone ringing and nuisance phone calls asking for five or six sheep shorn when you should be out doing three or 4 , 000 sheep .
"$ 20 or $ 30 above AWB ' s estimate , which is very significant in a low production year in terms of farm profitability ."
" We are providing resources to both SAFF to coordinate the applications and to community or industry group that ' s done the application , the resources they need to actually put the application together ," he said .
" There ' s an increased likelihood of wetter than average conditions there and it ' s not quite as discouraging as it was in the south - east of the country as well where the probabilities have risen from around about 40 per cent or a bit lower last outlook .
" One of the areas that we have been looking at reasonably closely since the start of the program is to try to get an indicator test or the thing that we are sort of calling a clinical test for the cancer ," he said .
" At the mine site and in Mt Magnet town site , there was huge hail stones and apparently they were the size of golf balls and two or three inches thick on the ground , so it ' s just an amazing event ."
I think there is a real perception or a realisation from the trade that supply will be tight ," he said .
" Some from the board , some from the registered levy payers , all have been voted upon and all have been acted upon and no vetoes have been applied from board ' s or from council of that matter ."
The University of New England is researching whether electric cables can be trailed around vines to heat them by one or two degrees , to prevent grape buds from freezing .
In some states dairy farmers have contracted prices or are paid based on world prices and so will have to bear some of the the higher costs of cattle feed themselves .
" The reluctance to ship has been by the US industry , related to concerns about how Korea might handle findings of small pieces of bone , or bone chips .
" I think it ' s important that some sensitivity in judgment is exercised when wage rises or salary rises of this kind are granted ," he said .
Canola crushers are currently looking at importing canola from Western Australia or Canada to meet the state ' s domestic demand .
Spokesman Charles Lund believes the $ 800 fine and conviction is unfair " The meatworks will tell you over 30 years we ' ve never had a question come back from them and our cattlework and our paperwork ' s been always spot on and they couldn ' t find anything wrong with any of our paperwork or the traceability of our stock ," he said .
" We would have to take more time to do the travelling , which of course when you are working or living on a station you don ' t have a lot of time to be doing that sort of stuff .
" For many years , our information and our news has either been sensationalised and it puts a picture of rural Australians always whingeing , always got a flood or a fire , or some catastrophe ," he said .
Manager Randall Crozier says most of the cattle have been sold or sent to feedlots .
Peter Weeks from Meat and Livestock Australia says many buyers who have enjoyed good patchy rain are still buying stock or choosing to grain feed .
" Of our agricultural loan book there is something in excess of 70 per cent of that managed on fixed rate or capped rate , or with interest rate risk management tools if you like applied to assist ," he said .
Muswellbrook races cancelled because of heavy track Racegoers in the heart of thoroughbred breeding industry , the Hunter Valley of New South Wales , do not know whether to laugh or cry today .
New grain varieties are subject to the rules , which prohibit growers from selling or even giving away the seed .
" Why can ' t they come out publicly and say well okay , if we either give or sell seed to somebody that we notify them of the amount of tonnes we ' ve sold , who we ' ve sold it to , then they ' ve got a record of it all ," he said .
He said the investigations supported the proposition that serious misconduct by public officers has , may have , or is occurring .
" We are now looking at a potential harvest or a pool delivery of 4 million tonnes so it ' s very important to maximise those pool returns that we have every tonne available to service the international market place ."
" The quality of the grain , whether it be good , bad or indifferent this year , is that there ' s so little grain around that the price of the grain has risen to double what they were getting last year and sometimes triple nearly ," he said .
The South Australian Farmers Federation says plant breeders rights that prevent certain seed varieties being traded or given away should be relaxed during the drought .
" Because the day will come whether it ' s in three years or not , the day will come when they won ' t be able to mules but to stop mulesing the whole flock will take a few years ," he said .
" There is an anomaly where boarding food is actually charged GST but if you ' re in a hostel or staying a hospital there ' s no GST ," he said .
An annual survey has found no central rock rats and no desert or native mice .
The growers have called on the Australian Securities and Investments Commission to make sure AWI employees do not count or tabulate the votes and are seeking an immediate post - vote audit .
" It probably averages 50 cents a kilo year in and year out , but it varies anywhere between about 20 or 30 cents up to $ 1 . 28 a kilo and we ' re always that far behind ," he said .
" Which means that it is not a failure of containment from Bundaberg and Childers but a separate incursion either at the same time as Bundaberg and Childers , or subsequent to it ."
Precise food labelling ' closer ' The food processing industry is closer to developing a new label to clearly show whether or not food has been grown in Australia .
" There ' s no point in someone in Canberra or Sydney trying to run our business in a different area .
The farms and the feed supplier have not been identified by Queensland Health or food safety authorities .
In Victoria , independent forecaster John Moore says there is 90 per cent chance of an average year starting with heavy falls in February or March .
The Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics ( ABARE ) says a record 94 projects , valued at $ 34 . 9 billion , are in the advanced planning or construction stage .
Carbon trading encourages companies to offset the release of greenhouse gases , by planting trees or paying someone else to plant them .
The company says there are no outstanding debts to farmers or carriers but there are a number of major creditors .
Put down malnourished stock : RSPCA The RSPCA is calling on sheep and cattle producers to put down any livestock which are falling down due to lack of feed or water .
Peter McGauran says with ongoing uncertainty over how much grain will be available for export or domestic livestock feed this year , the Government is continuing to process 40 applications to import grain .
The foods are said to help prevent life threatening diseases or curb potential health problems like obesity , heart disease and high blood pressure .
" If we do start to see a large amount of genetically modified canola coming into Australia , if it ' s going to be processed and used as oil , consumers wouldn ' t necessarily know if a product they ' re purchasing has been genetically modified or does contain genetically modified canola oil ," she said .
Doctors call for rural health community service obligation The Rural Doctors Association ( RDA ) claims the Federal Government is more concerned with ensuring people have a phone rather than a doctor or hospital .
Vegie growers told to change Tasmania ' s vegetable growers have been told to change or be prepared to go out of business .
" We ' ve got to start somewhere to get the vegetable industry off the ground or to stop it going back into the ground I suppose ," one grower said .
" At the end of that time they ' ll get a bonus or whatever for hanging in there , it ' ll be like a miniature long service leave sort of thing ."
" This year has been pretty slow because we have had such a cold dry season , it ' s the third or fourth largest number of days that have been below a certain temperature so that certainly slows down the animals .
" One of the problems we ' ve got at the moment is that impacts of climate change at a regional level or on a particular industry aren ' t really that well known ."
" We ' ve simply set out bowls of water with and without cane toad tadpoles , we ' ve put mosquito larvae in there and we ' ve seen whether or not the mosquito larvae do survive and what size mozzie actually flies out at the end ," Prof Shine said .
" So if you ' re going to have too much wine it ' s rather a good thing to have too much good wine , or very good wine , rather than too much bad wine ."
The Goulburn Broken Catchment Authority has work for 60 people who are either under - employed or unemployed due to drought or recent devastating frosts in the Goulburn Valley .
Spokesman Nigel Parratt says the company should invest in clean technology or plant trees to offset emissions the extracted coal will produce .
" If it sets a precedent , we ' d certainly like to see other high greenhouse gas - either emitters or users - follow suit ," he said .
The Australian Livestock and Property Agents Association says out of more than 650 , 000 head of cattle , less than 1 per cent either did not have electronic ear tags or had tags that were not read by scanners .
" As time goes on people are learning how to put them in better , the application rates are much better and I think also the suppliers or manufacturers of the tags are also getting better at it ," he said .
" It ' s a matter of getting some Australian or some examples that we ' d be more familiar with than some of the American examples he had ," he said .
" We believe that any solution that leaves a monopoly in place in Australia , Canada , wherever it is , no matter how you shuffle the boxes around or shift responsibility from one organisation to another , a monopoly is not a permanent solution ," spokesman Steve Mercer said .
Mr Mercer said if the new arrangement leaves in place veto power over private exports with a new organisation or Australia ' s Wheat Export Authority it is still a monopoly and must be ended .
" Everyone ' s now talking whether or not they are going to go back straightaway after New Year ' s or whether they ' ll hold back ," she said .
" We had 1 . 7 million lambs processed for the month which is around 200 , 000 more for the same month than the four or five previous years ," he said .
" That shift in terms of their diets means that for beef or milk in the dairy industry has a very good potential going forward ," he said .
' Slots ' may accelerate fires , says researcher A bushfire researcher says slots or super dry air which reaches the earth ' s surface from a high altitude may have accelerated some of Australia ' s worst fires .
" Before I allocate my wheat I want to know that CBH ( Co - operative Bulk Handling ) has got a realistic chance of extracting a $ 20 or $ 30 a tonne premium ," a third wheat grower said .
Although there is still no clear time frame or cost estimate , industry representative Malcolm Edward says he is pleased to hear it is heading in the right direction .
" In the past I think industry was concerned about replacing Midland , but knowing that the other regional centres needed upgrading or replacing , it had been the wish that we ' d get a total approach to the whole thing ," he said .
The paper says water seems to have flowed down two gullies in the past few years , even though liquid water cannot remain long on the planet ' s frigid , nearly airless surface because it would rapidly freeze or evaporate .
The Royal Australian Navy has been given permission to shoot at uncooperative illegal fishing vessels to disable engines or rudders but not sink them .
" We ' ve asked to have the bone chips returned , some people have suggested DNA sampling or other means of trying to determine the origin of those bone chips ," he said .
" When we agreed to take an extra 100 or so heifers that was some six weeks ago because there was quite a bit of rough weather on Bass Strait it took some time to get them over ," he said .
The ABS figures are confirming what farmers are seeing in the paddock as their incomes are dropping , while the cost of their inputs are staying the same or rising if they are feeding expensive grain to animals .
" Of course the last thing that the importer or the producer of the cheese wants is someone to get ill from it .
Eyre Peninsula farmers may have to shoot sheep Farmers on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia may have to shoot their sheep in the next few months because they cannot afford to feed them or send them to market .
The Primary Industries and Economic Development Committee , which is advising the State Government , has until the end of the year to resolve the long - running debate or risk industry losing control of the forests to the State Government .
" So we will be watching to see how this is reconstituted and whether it is going to be done in a way that is transparent , or whether it ' s going to be utilised to undercut us when we ' re trying to go into other markets ."
" We are exporting a lot of beef into Japan at the present time , but all of it is paying 40 per cent or more tariffs ," he said .
" I want to hear from people about whether they think it would be better in private or public ownership ," he said .
Queensland livestock manager , Tony Gooden is rejecting speculation that his company is either interested in buying the yards , or setting up its own facility in competition to the council - run centre .
Climate scientist Graham Pearman says governments need to decide whether they invest in measures to mitigate climate change now , or boost firefighting resources later .
" So whether they are ex - prisoners or they are not , a lot of it is just about creating an opportunity and we are pretty happy to be doing that .
" There ' s probably less than 1 per cent of the mangoes hanging on the tree and every one of them has five or six chops out of them ," he said .
" If they ' re talking to a farmer or a farmer ' s wife or whoever , then they will be able to have the skills to be able to recognise those signs and symptoms ," he said .
All contracts signed on or after last Friday are subject to the code , which is designed to improve transparency .
" Some of these frozen vegetables reflect renewed or different sourcing policies of the food processors in Australia , in particular , over the last 12 months anyway , a switch from Australian - sourced product to New Zealand - sourced product ," he said .
" We know the river is going to cease to flow within two or three months ' time ," he said .
He says he ' s suspended AWB , several individuals and a Minnesota commodities firm from USDA programs or purchases .
The suspension does not prevent Australian wheat from being sold in the US or affect AWB ' s ability to trade on commodity exchanges .
But they ' ll be faced with an expensive decision about whether to pay higher prices for local produce , or buy cheaper frozen imports .
Rural Women New Zealand is trying to find out what help is needed , so members can raise money , or send food parcels .
" I don ' t really go for the turkey at Christmas lunch , I generally go for more ... lamb or beef or something ," another said .
" These are just massive tax distortions or subsidies which are leading to distortion of capital into rural Australia ," he said .
" If the single desk closes down or in fact changes to the point where we don ' t have a future for the say [ in ] the 2007 pool then we will phase out of business .
