Emma Woodhouse , handsome , clever , and rich , with a comfortable home and happy disposition , seemed to unite some of the best blessings of existence ; and had lived nearly twenty - one years in the world with very little to distress or vex her .
He could not meet her in conversation , rational or playful .
The evil of the actual disparity in their ages ( and Mr . Woodhouse had not married early ) was much increased by his constitution and habits ; for having been a valetudinarian all his life , without activity of mind or body , he was a much older man in ways than in years ; and though everywhere beloved for the friendliness of his heart and his amiable temper , his talents could not have recommended him at any time .
Mr . Knightley , a sensible man about seven or eight - and - thirty , was not only a very old and intimate friend of the family , but particularly connected with it , as the elder brother of Isabella ' s husband .
I have a great regard for you and Emma ; but when it comes to the question of dependence or independence !-- At any rate , it must be better to have only one to please than two ."
You do not think I could mean _you_ , or suppose Mr . Knightley to mean _you_ .
Mr . Weston , who had been a widower so long , and who seemed so perfectly comfortable without a wife , so constantly occupied either in his business in town or among his friends here , always acceptable wherever he went , always cheerful -- Mr . Weston need not spend a single evening in the year alone if he did not like it .
Depend upon it , a man of six or seven - and - twenty can take care of himself ."
Mr . Weston was a native of Highbury , and born of a respectable family , which for the last two or three generations had been rising into gentility and property .
He had still a small house in Highbury , where most of his leisure days were spent ; and between useful occupation and the pleasures of society , the next eighteen or twenty years of his life passed cheerfully away .
There was not a dissentient voice on the subject , either when Mrs . Perry drank tea with Mrs . and Miss Bates , or when Mrs . and Miss Bates returned the visit .
She knew that at times she must be missed ; and could not think , without pain , of Emma ' s losing a single pleasure , or suffering an hour ' s ennui , from the want of her companionableness : but dear Emma was of no feeble character ; she was more equal to her situation than most girls would have been , and had sense , and energy , and spirits that might be hoped would bear her well and happily through its little difficulties and privations .
Her situation was altogether the subject of hours of gratitude to Mrs . Weston , and of moments only of regret ; and her satisfaction -- her more than satisfaction -- her cheerful enjoyment , was so just and so apparent , that Emma , well as she knew her father , was sometimes taken by surprize at his being still able to pity ` poor Miss Taylor ,' when they left her at Randalls in the centre of every domestic comfort , or saw her go away in the evening attended by her pleasant husband to a carriage of her own .
After these came a second set ; among the most come - at - able of whom were Mrs . and Miss Bates , and Mrs . Goddard , three ladies almost always at the service of an invitation from Hartfield , and who were fetched and carried home so often , that Mr . Woodhouse thought it no hardship for either James or the horses .
Miss Bates stood in the very worst predicament in the world for having much of the public favour ; and she had no intellectual superiority to make atonement to herself , or frighten those who might hate her into outward respect .
She had never boasted either beauty or cleverness .
Mrs . Goddard was the mistress of a School -- not of a seminary , or an establishment , or any thing which professed , in long sentences of refined nonsense , to combine liberal acquirements with elegant morality , upon new principles and new systems -- and where young ladies for enormous pay might be screwed out of health and into vanity -- but a real , honest , old - fashioned Boarding - school , where a reasonable quantity of accomplishments were sold at a reasonable price , and where girls might be sent to be out of the way , and scramble themselves into a little education , without any danger of coming back prodigies .
She was a plain , motherly kind of woman , who had worked hard in her youth , and now thought herself entitled to the occasional holiday of a tea - visit ; and having formerly owed much to Mr . Woodhouse ' s kindness , felt his particular claim on her to leave her neat parlour , hung round with fancy - work , whenever she could , and win or lose a few sixpences by his fireside .
Her father never went beyond the shrubbery , where two divisions of the ground sufficed him for his long walk , or his short , as the year varied ; and since Mrs . Weston ' s marriage her exercise had been too much confined .
She had taken up a wrong idea , fancying it was a mother and daughter , a son and son ' s wife , who all lived together ; but when it appeared that the Mr . Martin , who bore a part in the narrative , and was always mentioned with approbation for his great good - nature in doing something or other , was a single man ; that there was no young Mrs . Martin , no wife in the case ; she did suspect danger to her poor little friend from all this hospitality and kindness , and that , if she were not taken care of , she might be required to sink herself forever .
A young farmer , whether on horseback or on foot , is the very last sort of person to raise my curiosity .
A degree or two lower , and a creditable appearance might interest me ; I might hope to be useful to their families in some way or other .
There can be no doubt of your being a gentleman ' s daughter , and you must support your claim to that station by every thing within your own power , or there will be plenty of people who would take pleasure in degrading you ."
I had imagined him , I confess , a degree or two nearer gentility ."
The older a person grows , Harriet , the more important it is that their manners should not be bad ; the more glaring and disgusting any loudness , or coarseness , or awkwardness becomes .
" In one respect , perhaps , Mr . Elton ' s manners are superior to Mr . Knightley ' s or Mr . Weston ' s .
He had a comfortable home for her , and Emma imagined a very sufficient income ; for though the vicarage of Highbury was not large , he was known to have some independent property ; and she thought very highly of him as a good - humoured , well - meaning , respectable young man , without any deficiency of useful understanding or knowledge of the world .
" There is hardly any desiring to refresh such a memory as _that_ ,"-- said Mr . Knightley , feelingly ; and for a moment or two he had done .
Weston may grow cross from the wantonness of comfort , or his son may plague him ."
I am much mistaken if Emma ' s doctrines give any strength of mind , or tend at all to make a girl adapt herself rationally to the varieties of her situation in life .-- They only give a little polish ."
" I either depend more upon Emma ' s good sense than you do , or am more anxious for her present comfort ; for I cannot lament the acquaintance .
" I do not know what I could imagine , but I confess that I have seldom seen a face or figure more pleasing to me than hers .
Mrs . Weston , I am not to be talked out of my dislike of Harriet Smith , or my dread of its doing them both harm ."
Where shall we see a better daughter , or a kinder sister , or a truer friend ?
" I know that you all love her really too well to be unjust or unkind ; but excuse me , Mr . Knightley , if I take the liberty ( I consider myself , you know , as having somewhat of the privilege of speech that Emma ' s mother might have had ) the liberty of hinting that I do not think any possible good can arise from Harriet Smith ' s intimacy being made a matter of much discussion among you .
convinced her that he had nothing more to say or surmise about Hartfield .
You do not know it I dare say , but two or three years ago I had a great passion for taking likenesses , and attempted several of my friends , and was thought to have a tolerable eye in general .
But from one cause or another , I gave it up in disgust .
She was not much deceived as to her own skill either as an artist or a musician , but she was not unwilling to have others deceived , or sorry to know her reputation for accomplishment often higher than it deserved .
There was merit in every drawing -- in the least finished , perhaps the most ; her style was spirited ; but had there been much less , or had there been ten times more , the delight and admiration of her two companions would have been the same .
She was so eager to have them drawn that I could not refuse ; but there is no making children of three or four years old stand still you know ; nor can it be very easy to take any likeness of them , beyond the air and complexion , unless they are coarser featured than any of mama ' s children ever were .
But for Harriet ' s sake , or rather for my own , and as there are no husbands and wives in the case _at_ _present_ , I will break my resolution now ."
Your meaning must be unequivocal ; no doubts or demurs : and such expressions of gratitude and concern for the pain you are inflicting as propriety requires , will present themselves unbidden to _your_ mind , I am persuaded .
" I lay it down as a general rule , Harriet , that if a woman _doubts_ as to whether she should accept a man or not , she certainly ought to refuse him .
A woman is not to marry a man merely because she is asked , or because he is attached to her , and can write a tolerable letter ."
" One should be sorry to see greater pride or refinement in the teacher of a school , Harriet .
" At this moment , perhaps , Mr . Elton is shewing your picture to his mother and sisters , telling how much more beautiful is the original , and after being asked for it five or six times , allowing them to hear your name , your own dear name ."
She was obliged to go the next morning for an hour or two to Mrs . Goddard ' s , but it was then to be settled that she should return to Hartfield , to make a regular visit of some days .
" I do not pretend to fix on times or places , but I must tell you that I have good reason to believe your little friend will soon hear of something to her advantage ."
What are Harriet Smith ' s claims , either of birth , nature or education , to any connexion higher than Robert Martin ?
I felt that , as to fortune , in all probability he might do much better ; and that as to a rational companion or useful helpmate , he could not do worse .
She is not to pay for the offence of others , by being held below the level of those with whom she is brought up .-- There can scarcely be a doubt that her father is a gentleman -- and a gentleman of fortune .-- Her allowance is very liberal ; nothing has ever been grudged for her improvement or comfort .-- That she is a gentleman ' s daughter , is indubitable to me ; that she associates with gentlemen ' s daughters , no one , I apprehend , will deny .-- She is superior to Mr . Robert Martin ."
Let her marry Robert Martin , and she is safe , respectable , and happy for ever ; but if you encourage her to expect to marry greatly , and teach her to be satisfied with nothing less than a man of consequence and large fortune , she may be a parlour - boarder at Mrs . Goddard ' s all the rest of her life -- or , at least , ( for Harriet Smith is a girl who will marry somebody or other ,) till she grow desperate , and is glad to catch at the old writing - master ' s son ."
She must abide by the evil of having refused him , whatever it may be ; and as to the refusal itself , I will not pretend to say that I might not influence her a little ; but I assure you there was very little for me or for any body to do .
The dread of such a failure after all became the prominent uneasiness ; and when Harriet appeared , and in very good spirits , and without having any such reason to give for her long absence , she felt a satisfaction which settled her with her own mind , and convinced her , that let Mr . Knightley think or say what he would , she had done nothing which woman ' s friendship and woman ' s feelings would not justify .
Miss Nash had told her all this , and had talked a great deal more about Mr . Elton ; and said , looking so very significantly at her , " that she did not pretend to understand what his business might be , but she only knew that any woman whom Mr . Elton could prefer , she should think the luckiest woman in the world ; for , beyond a doubt , Mr . Elton had not his equal for beauty or agreeableness ."
It was much easier to chat than to study ; much pleasanter to let her imagination range and work at Harriet ' s fortune , than to be labouring to enlarge her comprehension or exercise it on sober facts ; and the only literary pursuit which engaged Harriet at present , the only mental provision she was making for the evening of life , was the collecting and transcribing all the riddles of every sort that she could meet with , into a thin quarto of hot - pressed paper , made up by her friend , and ornamented with ciphers and trophies .
He was invited to contribute any really good enigmas , charades , or conundrums that he might recollect ; and she had the pleasure of seeing him most intently at work with his recollections ; and at the same time , as she could perceive , most earnestly careful that nothing ungallant , nothing that did not breathe a compliment to the sex should pass his lips .
They owed to him their two or three politest puzzles ; and the joy and exultation with which at last he recalled , and rather sentimentally recited , that well - known charade ,
He was afraid not even Miss Woodhouse "-- he stopt a moment --" or Miss Smith could inspire him ."
It must be very clever , or he would not have brought it .
Where would be the use of his bringing us a charade made by a friend upon a mermaid or a shark ?
I could never tell whether an attachment between you and Mr . Elton were most desirable or most natural .
" I cannot make a question , or listen to a question about that .
continued Harriet --" these two last !-- But how shall I ever be able to return the paper , or say I have found it out ?-- Oh !
He will be here this evening , I dare say , and then I will give it him back , and some nonsense or other will pass between us , and you shall not be committed .-- Your soft eyes shall chuse their own time for beaming .
A poet in love must be encouraged in both capacities , or neither .
" My dear Harriet , you must not refine too much upon this charade .-- You will betray your feelings improperly , if you are too conscious and too quick , and appear to affix more meaning , or even quite all the meaning which may be affixed to it .
She read it to him , just as he liked to have any thing read , slowly and distinctly , and two or three times over , with explanations of every part as she proceeded -- and he was very much pleased , and , as she had foreseen , especially struck with the complimentary conclusion .
Mr . John Knightley must be in town again on the 28th , and we ought to be thankful , papa , that we are to have the whole of the time they can give to the country , that two or three days are not to be taken out for the Abbey .
Mr . Woodhouse could never allow for Mr . Knightley ' s claims on his brother , or any body ' s claims on Isabella , except his own .
I wonder which she will think the handsomest , Henry or John ?"
His ostensible reason , however , was to ask whether Mr . Woodhouse ' s party could be made up in the evening without him , or whether he should be in the smallest degree necessary at Hartfield .
" You must make my apologies to your friend ; but so good a charade must not be confined to one or two .
" I do so wonder , Miss Woodhouse , that you should not be married , or going to be married !
but I never have been in love ; it is not my way , or my nature ; and I do not think I ever shall .
" If I know myself , Harriet , mine is an active , busy mind , with a great many independent resources ; and I do not perceive why I should be more in want of employment at forty or fifty than one - and - twenty .
Woman ' s usual occupations of hand and mind will be as open to me then as they are now ; or with no important variation .
Every letter from her is read forty times over ; her compliments to all friends go round and round again ; and if she does but send her aunt the pattern of a stomacher , or knit a pair of garters for her grandmother , one hears of nothing else for a month .
In the present instance , it was sickness and poverty together which she came to visit ; and after remaining there as long as she could give comfort or advice , she quitted the cottage with such an impression of the scene as made her say to Harriet , as they walked away ,
To walk by the side of this child , and talk to and question her , was the most natural thing in the world , or would have been the most natural , had she been acting just then without design ; and by this means the others were still able to keep ahead , without any obligation of waiting for her .
Mr . Elton , I must beg leave to stop at your house , and ask your housekeeper for a bit of ribband or string , or any thing just to keep my boot on ."
It was no longer in Emma ' s power to superintend his happiness or quicken his measures .
They might advance rapidly if they would , however ; they must advance somehow or other whether they would or no .
Till this year , every long vacation since their marriage had been divided between Hartfield and Donwell Abbey ; but all the holidays of this autumn had been given to sea - bathing for the children , and it was therefore many months since they had been seen in a regular way by their Surry connexions , or seen at all by Mr . Woodhouse , who could not be induced to get so far as London , even for poor Isabella ' s sake ; and who consequently was now most nervously and apprehensively happy in forestalling this too short visit .
The bustle and joy of such an arrival , the many to be talked to , welcomed , encouraged , and variously dispersed and disposed of , produced a noise and confusion which his nerves could not have borne under any other cause , nor have endured much longer even for this ; but the ways of Hartfield and the feelings of her father were so respected by Mrs . John Knightley , that in spite of maternal solicitude for the immediate enjoyment of her little ones , and for their having instantly all the liberty and attendance , all the eating and drinking , and sleeping and playing , which they could possibly wish for , without the smallest delay , the children were never allowed to be long a disturbance to him , either in themselves or in any restless attendance on them .
She was not a woman of strong understanding or any quickness ; and with this resemblance of her father , she inherited also much of his constitution ; was delicate in her own health , over - careful of that of her children , had many fears and many nerves , and was as fond of her own Mr . Wingfield in town as her father could be of Mr . Perry .
He had all the clearness and quickness of mind which she wanted , and he could sometimes act an ungracious , or say a severe thing .
Mr . Woodhouse ' s peculiarities and fidgetiness were sometimes provoking him to a rational remonstrance or sharp retort equally ill - bestowed .
Either in the morning or evening of every day , excepting one , have we seen either Mr . Weston or Mrs . Weston , and generally both , either at Randalls or here -- and as you may suppose , Isabella , most frequently here .
" Me , my love ," cried his wife , hearing and understanding only in part .-- " Are you talking about me ?-- I am sure nobody ought to be , or can be , a greater advocate for matrimony than I am ; and if it had not been for the misery of her leaving Hartfield , I should never have thought of Miss Taylor but as the most fortunate woman in the world ; and as to slighting Mr . Weston , that excellent Mr . Weston , I think there is nothing he does not deserve .
" Has he been here on this occasion -- or has he not ?"
" But you need not imagine Mr . Weston to have felt what you would feel in giving up Henry or John .
Mr . Weston is rather an easy , cheerful - tempered man , than a man of strong feelings ; he takes things as he finds them , and makes enjoyment of them somehow or other , depending , I suspect , much more upon what is called society for his comforts , that is , upon the power of eating and drinking , and playing whist with his neighbours five times a week , than upon family affection , or any thing that home affords ."
Now , Mr . Knightley , a word or two more , and I have done .
The evening was quiet and conversable , as Mr . Woodhouse declined cards entirely for the sake of comfortable talk with his dear Isabella , and the little party made two natural divisions ; on one side he and his daughter ; on the other the two Mr . Knightleys ; their subjects totally distinct , or very rarely mixing -- and Emma only occasionally joining in one or the other .
As a magistrate , he had generally some point of law to consult John about , or , at least , some curious anecdote to give ; and as a farmer , as keeping in hand the home - farm at Donwell , he had to tell what every field was to bear next year , and to give all such local information as could not fail of being interesting to a brother whose home it had equally been the longest part of his life , and whose attachments were strong .
The plan of a drain , the change of a fence , the felling of a tree , and the destination of every acre for wheat , turnips , or spring corn , was entered into with as much equality of interest by John , as his cooler manners rendered possible ; and if his willing brother ever left him any thing to inquire about , his inquiries even approached a tone of eagerness .
" Mr . Wingfield most strenuously recommended it , sir -- or we should not have gone .
" I hope he will be here to - morrow , for I have a question or two to ask him about myself of some consequence .
Either bathing has been of the greatest service to her , or else it is to be attributed to an excellent embrocation of Mr . Wingfield ' s , which we have been applying at times ever since August ."
Mr . Wingfield told me that he has never known them more general or heavy -- except when it has been quite an influenza ."
Why does he make it any business of his , to wonder at what I do ?-- at my taking my family to one part of the coast or another ?-- I may be allowed , I hope , the use of my judgment as well as Mr .
He paused -- and growing cooler in a moment , added , with only sarcastic dryness , " If Mr . Perry can tell me how to convey a wife and five children a distance of an hundred and thirty miles with no greater expense or inconvenience than a distance of forty , I should be as willing to prefer Cromer to South End as he could himself ."
" It is so cold , so very cold -- and looks and feels so very much like snow , that if it were to any other place or with any other party , I should really try not to go out to - day -- and dissuade my father from venturing ; but as he has made up his mind , and does not seem to feel the cold himself , I do not like to interfere , as I know it would be so great a disappointment to Mr . and Mrs . Weston .
Mr . Elton looked as if he did not very well know what answer to make ; which was exactly the case ; for though very much gratified by the kind care of such a fair lady , and not liking to resist any advice of her ' s , he had not really the least inclination to give up the visit ;-- but Emma , too eager and busy in her own previous conceptions and views to hear him impartially , or see him with clear vision , was very well satisfied with his muttering acknowledgment of its being " very cold , certainly very cold ," and walked on , rejoicing in having extricated him from Randalls , and secured him the power of sending to inquire after Harriet every hour of the evening .
" I do not say it is so ; but you will do well to consider whether it is so or not , and to regulate your behaviour accordingly .
If we were obliged to go out such an evening as this , by any call of duty or business , what a hardship we should deem it ;-- and here are we , probably with rather thinner clothing than usual , setting forward voluntarily , without excuse , in defiance of the voice of nature , which tells man , in every thing given to his view or his feelings , to stay at home himself , and keep all under shelter that he can ;-- here are we setting forward to spend five dull hours in another man ' s house , with nothing to say or to hear that was not said and heard yesterday , and may not be said and heard again to - morrow .
This was a pleasure which perhaps the whole day ' s visit might not afford , which certainly did not belong to the present half - hour ; but the very sight of Mrs . Weston , her smile , her touch , her voice was grateful to Emma , and she determined to think as little as possible of Mr . Elton ' s oddities , or of any thing else unpleasant , and enjoy all that was enjoyable to the utmost .
That Mr . and Mrs . Weston did think of it , she was very strongly persuaded ; and though not meaning to be induced by him , or by any body else , to give up a situation which she believed more replete with good than any she could change it for , she had a great curiosity to see him , a decided intention of finding him pleasant , of being liked by him to a certain degree , and a sort of pleasure in the idea of their being coupled in their friends ' imaginations .
With such sensations , Mr . Elton ' s civilities were dreadfully ill - timed ; but she had the comfort of appearing very polite , while feeling very cross -- and of thinking that the rest of the visit could not possibly pass without bringing forward the same information again , or the substance of it , from the open - hearted Mr .
But I know they will , because it is a family that a certain lady , of some consequence , at Enscombe , has a particular dislike to : and though it is thought necessary to invite them once in two or three years , they always are put off when it comes to the point .
" My dearest Emma , do not pretend , with your sweet temper , to understand a bad one , or to lay down rules for it : you must let it go its own way .
Poor Mr . Woodhouse was silent from consternation ; but every body else had something to say ; every body was either surprized or not surprized , and had some question to ask , or some comfort to offer .
Another hour or two ' s snow can hardly make the road impassable ; and we are two carriages ; if one is blown over in the bleak part of the common field there will be the other at hand .
As to there being any quantity of snow fallen or likely to fall to impede their return , that was a mere joke ; he was afraid they would find no difficulty .
Isabella then went to Emma ; but Emma could not so entirely give up the hope of their being all able to get away ; and they were still discussing the point , when Mr . Knightley , who had left the room immediately after his brother ' s first report of the snow , came back again , and told them that he had been out of doors to examine , and could answer for there not being the smallest difficulty in their getting home , whenever they liked it , either now or an hour hence .
and I can account for it only in one way ; you are not yourself , or you could not speak either to me , or of Harriet , in such a manner .
cried Mr . Elton , " what can be the meaning of this ?-- Miss Smith !-- I never thought of Miss Smith in the whole course of my existence -- never paid her any attentions , but as your friend : never cared whether she were dead or alive , but as your friend .
Every thing that I have said or done , for many weeks past , has been with the sole view of marking my adoration of yourself .
Without knowing when the carriage turned into Vicarage Lane , or when it stopped , they found themselves , all at once , at the door of his house ; and he was out before another syllable passed .-- Emma then felt it indispensable to wish him a good night .
Every part of it brought pain and humiliation , of some sort or other ; but , compared with the evil to Harriet , all was light ; and she would gladly have submitted to feel yet more mistaken -- more in error -- more disgraced by mis - judgment , than she actually was , could the effects of her blunders have been confined to herself .
His manners , however , must have been unmarked , wavering , dubious , or she could not have been so misled .
To be sure , the charade , with its " ready wit "-- but then the " soft eyes "-- in fact it suited neither ; it was a jumble without taste or truth .
There had been no real affection either in his language or manners .
Sighs and fine words had been given in abundance ; but she could hardly devise any set of expressions , or fancy any tone of voice , less allied with real love .
He only wanted to aggrandise and enrich himself ; and if Miss Woodhouse of Hartfield , the heiress of thirty thousand pounds , were not quite so easily obtained as he had fancied , he would soon try for Miss Somebody else with twenty , or with ten .
But -- that he should talk of encouragement , should consider her as aware of his views , accepting his attentions , meaning ( in short ), to marry him !-- should suppose himself her equal in connexion or mind !-- look down upon her friend , so well understanding the gradations of rank below him , and be so blind to what rose above , as to fancy himself shewing no presumption in addressing her !-- It was most provoking .
The landed property of Hartfield certainly was inconsiderable , being but a sort of notch in the Donwell Abbey estate , to which all the rest of Highbury belonged ; but their fortune , from other sources , was such as to make them scarcely secondary to Donwell Abbey itself , in every other kind of consequence ; and the Woodhouses had long held a high place in the consideration of the neighbourhood which Mr . Elton had first entered not two years ago , to make his way as he could , without any alliances but in trade , or any thing to recommend him to notice but his situation and his civility .-- But he had fancied her in love with him ; that evidently must have been his dependence ; and after raving a little about the seeming incongruity of gentle manners and a conceited head , Emma was obliged in common honesty to stop and admit that her own behaviour to him had been so complaisant and obliging , so full of courtesy and attention , as ( supposing her real motive unperceived ) might warrant a man of ordinary observation and delicacy , like Mr . Elton , in fancying himself a very decided favourite .
The distressing explanation she had to make to Harriet , and all that poor Harriet would be suffering , with the awkwardness of future meetings , the difficulties of continuing or discontinuing the acquaintance , of subduing feelings , concealing resentment , and avoiding eclat , were enough to occupy her in most unmirthful reflections some time longer , and she went to bed at last with nothing settled but the conviction of her having blundered most dreadfully .
It was a great consolation that Mr . Elton should not be really in love with her , or so particularly amiable as to make it shocking to disappoint him -- that Harriet ' s nature should not be of that superior sort in which the feelings are most acute and retentive -- and that there could be no necessity for any body ' s knowing what had passed except the three principals , and especially for her father ' s being given a moment ' s uneasiness about it .
Mr . Woodhouse would have been miserable had his daughter attempted it , and she was therefore safe from either exciting or receiving unpleasant and most unsuitable ideas .
The ground covered with snow , and the atmosphere in that unsettled state between frost and thaw , which is of all others the most unfriendly for exercise , every morning beginning in rain or snow , and every evening setting in to freeze , she was for many days a most honourable prisoner .
It was weather which might fairly confine every body at home ; and though she hoped and believed him to be really taking comfort in some society or other , it was very pleasant to have her father so well satisfied with his being all alone in his own house , too wise to stir out ; and to hear him say to Mr . Knightley , whom no weather could keep entirely from them ,--
Her tears fell abundantly -- but her grief was so truly artless , that no dignity could have made it more respectable in Emma ' s eyes -- and she listened to her and tried to console her with all her heart and understanding -- really for the time convinced that Harriet was the superior creature of the two -- and that to resemble her would be more for her own welfare and happiness than all that genius or intelligence could do .
Time , she knew , must be allowed for this being thoroughly done ; and she could suppose herself but an indifferent judge of such matters in general , and very inadequate to sympathise in an attachment to Mr . Elton in particular ; but it seemed to her reasonable that at Harriet ' s age , and with the entire extinction of all hope , such a progress might be made towards a state of composure by the time of Mr . Elton ' s return , as to allow them all to meet again in the common routine of acquaintance , without any danger of betraying sentiments or increasing them .
Harriet did think him all perfection , and maintained the non - existence of any body equal to him in person or goodness -- and did , in truth , prove herself more resolutely in love than Emma had foreseen ; but yet it appeared to her so natural , so inevitable to strive against an inclination of that sort _unrequited_ , that she could not comprehend its continuing very long in equal force .
If Mr . Elton , on his return , made his own indifference as evident and indubitable as she could not doubt he would anxiously do , she could not imagine Harriet ' s persisting to place her happiness in the sight or the recollection of him .
Not one of them had the power of removal , or of effecting any material change of society .
Harriet was farther unfortunate in the tone of her companions at Mrs . Goddard ' s ; Mr . Elton being the adoration of all the teachers and great girls in the school ; and it must be at Hartfield only that she could have any chance of hearing him spoken of with cooling moderation or repellent truth .
For half an hour Mr . Weston was surprized and sorry ; but then he began to perceive that Frank ' s coming two or three months later would be a much better plan ; better time of year ; better weather ; and that he would be able , without any doubt , to stay considerably longer with them than if he had come sooner .
She was the first to announce it to Mr . Knightley ; and exclaimed quite as much as was necessary , ( or , being acting a part , perhaps rather more ,) at the conduct of the Churchills , in keeping him away .
A man at his age -- what is he ?-- three or four - and - twenty -- cannot be without the means of doing as much as that .
" It is not to be conceived that a man of three or four - and - twenty should not have liberty of mind or limb to that amount .
We hear of him for ever at some watering - place or other .
Had she been a person of consequence herself , he would have come I dare say ; and it would not have signified whether he did or no .
If I find him conversable , I shall be glad of his acquaintance ; but if he is only a chattering coxcomb , he will not occupy much of my time or thoughts ."
To you , he will talk of farming ; to me , of drawing or music ; and so on to every body , having that general information on all subjects which will enable him to follow the lead , or take the lead , just as propriety may require , and to speak extremely well on each ; that is my idea of him ."
She could not think that Harriet ' s solace or her own sins required more ; and she was therefore industriously getting rid of the subject as they returned ;-- but it burst out again when she thought she had succeeded , and after speaking some time of what the poor must suffer in winter , and receiving no other answer than a very plaintive -- " Mr . Elton is so good to the poor !"
By only raising my voice , and saying any thing two or three times over , she is sure to hear ; but then she is used to my voice .
Yes , Friday or Saturday ; she cannot say which , because Colonel Campbell will be wanting the carriage himself one of those days .
Oh yes , Friday or Saturday next .
That is the reason of her writing out of rule , as we call it ; for , in the common course , we should not have heard from her before next Tuesday or Wednesday ."
They had not intended to go over till the summer , but she is so impatient to see them again -- for till she married , last October , she was never away from them so much as a week , which must make it very strange to be in different kingdoms , I was going to say , but however different countries , and so she wrote a very urgent letter to her mother -- or her father , I declare I do not know which it was , but we shall see presently in Jane ' s letter -- wrote in Mr . Dixon ' s name as well as her own , to press their coming over directly , and they would give them the meeting in Dublin , and take them back to their country seat , Baly - craig , a beautiful place , I fancy .
They want her ( Mr . and Mrs . Dixon ) excessively to come over with Colonel and Mrs . Campbell ; quite depend upon it ; nothing can be more kind or pressing than their _joint_ invitation , Jane says , as you will hear presently ; Mr . Dixon does not seem in the least backward in any attention .
Ever since the service he rendered Jane at Weymouth , when they were out in that party on the water , and she , by the sudden whirling round of something or other among the sails , would have been dashed into the sea at once , and actually was all but gone , if he had not , with the greatest presence of mind , caught hold of her habit -- ( I can never think of it without trembling !)
so considerate !-- But however , she is so far from well , that her kind friends the Campbells think she had better come home , and try an air that always agrees with her ; and they have no doubt that three or four months at Highbury will entirely cure her -- and it is certainly a great deal better that she should come here , than go to Ireland , if she is unwell .
" And so she is to come to us next Friday or Saturday , and the Campbells leave town in their way to Holyhead the Monday following -- as you will find from Jane ' s letter .
By birth she belonged to Highbury : and when at three years old , on losing her mother , she became the property , the charge , the consolation , the fondling of her grandmother and aunt , there had seemed every probability of her being permanently fixed there ; of her being taught only what very limited means could command , and growing up with no advantages of connexion or improvement , to be engrafted on what nature had given her in a pleasing person , good understanding , and warm - hearted , well - meaning relations .
Her disposition and abilities were equally worthy of all that friendship could do ; and at eighteen or nineteen she was , as far as such an early age can be qualified for the care of children , fully competent to the office of instruction herself ; but she was too much beloved to be parted with .
It was her own choice to give the time of their absence to Highbury ; to spend , perhaps , her last months of perfect liberty with those kind relations to whom she was so very dear : and the Campbells , whatever might be their motive or motives , whether single , or double , or treble , gave the arrangement their ready sanction , and said , that they depended more on a few months spent in her native air , for the recovery of her health , than on any thing else .
But " she could never get acquainted with her : she did not know how it was , but there was such coldness and reserve -- such apparent indifference whether she pleased or not -- and then , her aunt was such an eternal talker !-- and she was made such a fuss with by every body !-- and it had been always imagined that they were to be so intimate -- because their ages were the same , every body had supposed they must be so fond of each other ."
It was a style of beauty , of which elegance was the reigning character , and as such , she must , in honour , by all her principles , admire it :-- elegance , which , whether of person or of mind , she saw so little in Highbury .
In that case , nothing could be more pitiable or more honourable than the sacrifices she had resolved on .
Emma was very willing now to acquit her of having seduced Mr . Dixon ' s actions from his wife , or of any thing mischievous which her imagination had suggested at first .
Before she had committed herself by any public profession of eternal friendship for Jane Fairfax , or done more towards a recantation of past prejudices and errors , than saying to Mr . Knightley , " She certainly is handsome ; she is better than handsome !"
She seemed bent on giving no real insight into Mr . Dixon ' s character , or her own value for his company , or opinion of the suitableness of the match .
It was all general approbation and smoothness ; nothing delineated or distinguished .
There probably _was_ something more to conceal than her own preference ; Mr . Dixon , perhaps , had been very near changing one friend for the other , or been fixed only to Miss Campbell , for the sake of the future twelve thousand pounds .
--" At a watering - place , or in a common London acquaintance , it was difficult to decide on such points .
" No ," said Mr . Knightley , nearly at the same time ; " you are not often deficient ; not often deficient either in manner or comprehension .
and I have often wished -- but it is so little one can venture to do -- small , trifling presents , of any thing uncommon -- Now we have killed a porker , and Emma thinks of sending them a loin or a leg ; it is very small and delicate -- Hartfield pork is not like any other pork -- but still it is pork -- and , my dear Emma , unless one could be sure of their making it into steaks , nicely fried , as ours are fried , without the smallest grease , and not roast it , for no stomach can bear roast pork -- I think we had better send the leg -- do not you think so , my dear ?"
They must not over - salt the leg ; and then , if it is not over - salted , and if it is very thoroughly boiled , just as Serle boils ours , and eaten very moderately of , with a boiled turnip , and a little carrot or parsnip , I do not consider it unwholesome ."
For it is not five minutes since I received Mrs . Cole ' s note -- no , it cannot be more than five -- or at least ten -- for I had got my bonnet and spencer on , just ready to come out -- I was only gone down to speak to Patty again about the pork -- Jane was standing in the passage -- were not you , Jane ?-- for my mother was so afraid that we had not any salting - pan large enough .
Now , here will be Mr . Elton and Miss Hawkins ; and there are the Coles , such very good people ; and the Perrys -- I suppose there never was a happier or a better couple than Mr . and Mrs . Perry .
" As to who , or what Miss Hawkins is , or how long he has been acquainted with her ," said Emma , " nothing I suppose can be known .
So I said , I was very much obliged to him : you know I could not do less ; and then he went back to Elizabeth , and I came round by the stables -- I believe I did -- but I hardly knew where I was , or any thing about it .
Harriet said , " very true ," and she " would not think about it ;" but still she talked of it -- still she could talk of nothing else ; and Emma , at last , in order to put the Martins out of her head , was obliged to hurry on the news , which she had meant to give with so much tender caution ; hardly knowing herself whether to rejoice or be angry , ashamed or only amused , at such a state of mind in poor Harriet -- such a conclusion of Mr . Elton ' s importance with her !
Though she did not feel the first intelligence as she might have done the day before , or an hour before , its interest soon increased ; and before their first conversation was over , she had talked herself into all the sensations of curiosity , wonder and regret , pain and pleasure , as to this fortunate Miss Hawkins , which could conduce to place the Martins under proper subordination in her fancy .
As Harriet now lived , the Martins could not get at her , without seeking her , where hitherto they had wanted either the courage or the condescension to seek her ; for since her refusal of the brother , the sisters never had been at Mrs . Goddard ' s ; and a twelvemonth might pass without their being thrown together again , with any necessity , or even any power of speech .
Human nature is so well disposed towards those who are in interesting situations , that a young person , who either marries or dies , is sure of being kindly spoken of .
A week had not passed since Miss Hawkins ' s name was first mentioned in Highbury , before she was , by some means or other , discovered to have every recommendation of person and mind ; to be handsome , elegant , highly accomplished , and perfectly amiable : and when Mr . Elton himself arrived to triumph in his happy prospects , and circulate the fame of her merits , there was very little more for him to do , than to tell her Christian name , and say whose music she principally played .
The charming Augusta Hawkins , in addition to all the usual advantages of perfect beauty and merit , was in possession of an independent fortune , of so many thousands as would always be called ten ; a point of some dignity , as well as some convenience : the story told well ; he had not thrown himself away -- he had gained a woman of 10 , 000 l . or thereabouts ; and he had gained her with such delightful rapidity -- the first hour of introduction had been so very soon followed by distinguishing notice ; the history which he had to give Mrs . Cole of the rise and progress of the affair was so glorious -- the steps so quick , from the accidental rencontre , to the dinner at Mr . Green ' s , and the party at Mrs . Brown ' s -- smiles and blushes rising in importance -- with consciousness and agitation richly scattered -- the lady had been so easily impressed -- so sweetly disposed -- had in short , to use a most intelligible phrase , been so very ready to have him , that vanity and prudence were equally contented .
She was always having a glimpse of him somewhere or other .
Emma saw him only once ; but two or three times every day Harriet was sure _just_ to meet with him , or _just_ to miss him , _just_ to hear his voice , or see his shoulder , _just_ to have something occur to preserve him in her fancy , in all the favouring warmth of surprize and conjecture .
Had it been allowable entertainment , had there been no pain to her friend , or reproach to herself , in the waverings of Harriet ' s mind , Emma would have been amused by its variations .
She meant to take her in the carriage , leave her at the Abbey Mill , while she drove a little farther , and call for her again so soon , as to allow no time for insidious applications or dangerous recurrences to the past , and give the most decided proof of what degree of intimacy was chosen for the future .
She could think of nothing better : and though there was something in it which her own heart could not approve -- something of ingratitude , merely glossed over -- it must be done , or what would become of Harriet ?
She would have given a great deal , or endured a great deal , to have had the Martins in a higher rank of life .
And she leaned back in the corner , to indulge her murmurs , or to reason them away ; probably a little of both -- such being the commonest process of a not ill - disposed mind .
The morning of the interesting day arrived , and Mrs . Weston ' s faithful pupil did not forget either at ten , or eleven , or twelve o ' clock , that she was to think of her at four .
"' Tis twelve ; I shall not forget to think of you four hours hence ; and by this time to - morrow , perhaps , or a little later , I may be thinking of the possibility of their all calling here .
His manner had no air of study or exaggeration .
Emma wondered whether the same suspicion of what might be expected from their knowing each other , which had taken strong possession of her mind , had ever crossed his ; and whether his compliments were to be considered as marks of acquiescence , or proofs of defiance .
Her own father ' s perfect exemption from any thought of the kind , the entire deficiency in him of all such sort of penetration or suspicion , was a most comfortable circumstance .
" As you are going farther on business , sir , I will take the opportunity of paying a visit , which must be paid some day or other , and therefore may as well be paid now .
I have the honour of being acquainted with a neighbour of yours , ( turning to Emma ,) a lady residing in or near Highbury ; a family of the name of Fairfax .
I shall have no difficulty , I suppose , in finding the house ; though Fairfax , I believe , is not the proper name -- I should rather say Barnes , or Bates .
It was not merely in fine words or hyperbolical compliment that he paid his duty ; nothing could be more proper or pleasing than his whole manner to her -- nothing could more agreeably denote his wish of considering her as a friend and securing her affection .
They were all three walking about together for an hour or two -- first round the shrubberies of Hartfield , and afterwards in Highbury .
He begged to be shewn the house which his father had lived in so long , and which had been the home of his father ' s father ; and on recollecting that an old woman who had nursed him was still living , walked in quest of her cottage from one end of the street to the other ; and though in some points of pursuit or observation there was no positive merit , they shewed , altogether , a good - will towards Highbury in general , which must be very like a merit to those he was with .
Emma watched and decided , that with such feelings as were now shewn , it could not be fairly supposed that he had been ever voluntarily absenting himself ; that he had not been acting a part , or making a parade of insincere professions ; and that Mr . Knightley certainly had not done him justice .
He could not be persuaded that so many good - looking houses as he saw around him , could not furnish numbers enough for such a meeting ; and even when particulars were given and families described , he was still unwilling to admit that the inconvenience of such a mixture would be any thing , or that there would be the smallest difficulty in every body ' s returning into their proper place the next morning .
He seemed to have all the life and spirit , cheerful feelings , and social inclinations of his father , and nothing of the pride or reserve of Enscombe .
She appeared to me to play well , that is , with considerable taste , but I know nothing of the matter myself .-- I am excessively fond of music , but without the smallest skill or right of judging of any body ' s performance .-- I have been used to hear her ' s admired ; and I remember one proof of her being thought to play well :-- a man , a very musical man , and in love with another woman -- engaged to her -- on the point of marriage -- would yet never ask that other woman to sit down to the instrument , if the lady in question could sit down instead -- never seemed to like to hear one if he could hear the other .
" So much the better -- or so much the worse :-- I do not know which .
But be it sweetness or be it stupidity in her -- quickness of friendship , or dulness of feeling -- there was one person , I think , who must have felt it : Miss Fairfax herself .
do not imagine that I expect an account of Miss Fairfax ' s sensations from you , or from any body else .
But I must be more in want of a friend , or an agreeable companion , than I have yet been , to take the trouble of conquering any body ' s reserve to procure one .
He might not be aware of the inroads on domestic peace to be occasioned by no housekeeper ' s room , or a bad butler ' s pantry , but no doubt he did perfectly feel that Enscombe could not make him happy , and that whenever he were attached , he would willingly give up much of wealth to be allowed an early establishment .
It did not accord with the rationality of plan , the moderation in expense , or even the unselfish warmth of heart , which she had believed herself to discern in him yesterday .
Vanity , extravagance , love of change , restlessness of temper , which must be doing something , good or bad ; heedlessness as to the pleasure of his father and Mrs . Weston , indifferent as to how his conduct might appear in general ; he became liable to all these charges .
In general he was judged , throughout the parishes of Donwell and Highbury , with great candour ; liberal allowances were made for the little excesses of such a handsome young man -- one who smiled so often and bowed so well ; but there was one spirit among them not to be softened , from its power of censure , by bows or smiles -- Mr . Knightley .
On their first coming into the country , they had lived in proportion to their income , quietly , keeping little company , and that little unexpensively ; but the last year or two had brought them a considerable increase of means -- the house in town had yielded greater profits , and fortune in general had smiled on them .
He would either have gloried in the achievement , or been ashamed of it .
There would have been either the ostentation of a coxcomb , or the evasions of a mind too weak to defend its own vanities .-- No , I am perfectly sure that he is not trifling or silly ."
for , if we had met first in the drawing - room , I doubt whether you would have discerned me to be more of a gentleman than usual .-- You might not have distinguished how I came , by my look or manner ."
There is always a look of consciousness or bustle when people come in a way which they know to be beneath them .
and it was but yesterday I was telling Mr . Cole , I really was ashamed to look at our new grand pianoforte in the drawing - room , while I do not know one note from another , and our little girls , who are but just beginning , perhaps may never make any thing of it ; and there is poor Jane Fairfax , who is mistress of music , has not any thing of the nature of an instrument , not even the pitifullest old spinet in the world , to amuse herself with .-- I was saying this to Mr . Cole but yesterday , and he quite agreed with me ; only he is so particularly fond of music that he could not help indulging himself in the purchase , hoping that some of our good neighbours might be so obliging occasionally to put it to a better use than we can ; and that really is the reason why the instrument was bought -- or else I am sure we ought to be ashamed of it .-- We are in great hopes that Miss Woodhouse may be prevailed with to try it this evening ."
" Yes , and what you told me on that head , confirmed an idea which I had entertained before .-- I do not mean to reflect upon the good intentions of either Mr . Dixon or Miss Fairfax , but I cannot help suspecting either that , after making his proposals to her friend , he had the misfortune to fall in love with _her_ , or that he became conscious of a little attachment on her side .
Miss Fairfax knows it is not from the Campbells , or they would have been guessed at first .
She did not wish to speak of the pianoforte , she felt too much in the secret herself , to think the appearance of curiosity or interest fair , and therefore purposely kept at a distance ; but by the others , the subject was almost immediately introduced , and she saw the blush of consciousness with which congratulations were received , the blush of guilt which accompanied the name of " my excellent friend Colonel Campbell ."
She questioned him as to the society in Yorkshire -- the extent of the neighbourhood about Enscombe , and the sort ; and could make out from his answers that , as far as Enscombe was concerned , there was very little going on , that their visitings were among a range of great families , none very near ; and that even when days were fixed , and invitations accepted , it was an even chance that Mrs . Churchill were not in health and spirits for going ; that they made a point of visiting no fresh person ; and that , though he had his separate engagements , it was not without difficulty , without considerable address _at_ _times_ , that he could get away , or introduce an acquaintance for a night .
He did not boast , but it naturally betrayed itself , that he had persuaded his aunt where his uncle could do nothing , and on her laughing and noticing it , he owned that he believed ( excepting one or two points ) he could _with_ _time_ persuade her to any thing .
I know no man more likely than Mr . Knightley to do the sort of thing -- to do any thing really good - natured , useful , considerate , or benevolent .
He has no occasion to marry , either to fill up his time or his heart ."
He would do any good to her , or her family ; but --"
They had sung together once or twice , it appeared , at Weymouth .
" Well , I always shall think that you play quite as well as she does , or that if there is any difference nobody would ever find it out .
Harriet , tempted by every thing and swayed by half a word , was always very long at a purchase ; and while she was still hanging over muslins and changing her mind , Emma went to the door for amusement .-- Much could not be hoped from the traffic of even the busiest part of Highbury ;-- Mr . Perry walking hastily by , Mr . William Cox letting himself in at the office - door , Mr . Cole ' s carriage - horses returning from exercise , or a stray letter - boy on an obstinate mule , were the liveliest objects she could presume to expect ; and when her eyes fell only on the butcher with his tray , a tidy old woman travelling homewards from shop with her full basket , two curs quarrelling over a dirty bone , and a string of dawdling children round the baker ' s little bow - window eyeing the gingerbread , she knew she had no reason to complain , and was amused enough ; quite enough still to stand at the door .
Voices approached the shop -- or rather one voice and two ladies : Mrs . Weston and Miss Bates met them at the door .
I meant to take them over to John Saunders the first thing I did , but something or other hindered me all the morning ; first one thing , then another , there is no saying what , you know .
But , however , I found afterwards from Patty , that William said it was all the apples of _that_ sort his master had ; he had brought them all -- and now his master had not one left to bake or boil .
He contrived that she should be seated by him ; and was sufficiently employed in looking out the best baked apple for her , and trying to make her help or advise him in his work , till Jane Fairfax was quite ready to sit down to the pianoforte again .
I dare say , Miss Fairfax , that he either gave his friend very minute directions , or wrote to Broadwood himself .
Do you imagine Colonel Campbell knows the business to be going forward just at this time ?-- Do you imagine it to be the consequence of an immediate commission from him , or that he may have sent only a general direction , an order indefinite as to time , to depend upon contingencies and conveniences ?"
Instances have been known of young people passing many , many months successively , without being at any ball of any description , and no material injury accrue either to body or mind ;-- but when a beginning is made -- when the felicities of rapid motion have once been , though slightly , felt -- it must be a very heavy set that does not ask for more .
A room at an inn was always damp and dangerous ; never properly aired , or fit to be inhabited .
The ladies here probably exchanged looks which meant , " Men never know when things are dirty or not ;" and the gentlemen perhaps thought each to himself , " Women will have their little nonsenses and needless cares ."
This card - room would be wanted as a card - room now ; or , if cards were conveniently voted unnecessary by their four selves , still was it not too small for any comfortable supper ?
All the minor arrangements of table and chair , lights and music , tea and supper , made themselves ; or were left as mere trifles to be settled at any time between Mrs . Weston and Mrs .
Either because he did not dance himself , or because the plan had been formed without his being consulted , he seemed resolved that it should not interest him , determined against its exciting any present curiosity , or affording him any future amusement .
It was not in compliment to Jane Fairfax however that he was so indifferent , or so indignant ; he was not guided by _her_ feelings in reprobating the ball , for _she_ enjoyed the thought of it to an extraordinary degree .
What strength , or what constancy of affection he might be subject to , was another point ; but at present she could not doubt his having a decidedly warm admiration , a conscious preference of herself ; and this persuasion , joined to all the rest , made her think that she _must_ be a little in love with him , in spite of every previous determination against it .
But , on the other hand , she could not admit herself to be unhappy , nor , after the first morning , to be less disposed for employment than usual ; she was still busy and cheerful ; and , pleasing as he was , she could yet imagine him to have faults ; and farther , though thinking of him so much , and , as she sat drawing or working , forming a thousand amusing schemes for the progress and close of their attachment , fancying interesting dialogues , and inventing elegant letters ; the conclusion of every imaginary declaration on his side was that she _refused_ _him_ .
This is in the supposition of his attachment continuing what it now is ; but I do not know that I expect it will ; I do not look upon him to be quite the sort of man -- I do not altogether build upon his steadiness or constancy .-- His feelings are warm , but I can imagine them rather changeable .-- Every consideration of the subject , in short , makes me thankful that my happiness is not more deeply involved .-- I shall do very well again after a little while -- and then , it will be a good thing over ; for they say every body is in love once in their lives , and I shall have been let off easily ."
No suspicious flourishes now of apology or concern ; it was the language of real feeling towards Mrs . Weston ; and the transition from Highbury to Enscombe , the contrast between the places in some of the first blessings of social life was just enough touched on to shew how keenly it was felt , and how much more might have been said but for the restraints of propriety .-- The charm of her own name was not wanting .
_Miss_ _Woodhouse_ appeared more than once , and never without a something of pleasing connexion , either a compliment to her taste , or a remembrance of what she had said ; and in the very last time of its meeting her eye , unadorned as it was by any such broad wreath of gallantry , she yet could discern the effect of her influence and acknowledge the greatest compliment perhaps of all conveyed .
Perhaps I may sometimes have felt that Harriet would not forget what was due -- or rather what would be kind by me ."
Mrs . Elton was first seen at church : but though devotion might be interrupted , curiosity could not be satisfied by a bride in a pew , and it must be left for the visits in form which were then to be paid , to settle whether she were very pretty indeed , or only rather pretty , or not pretty at all .
Emma had feelings , less of curiosity than of pride or propriety , to make her resolve on not being the last to pay her respects ; and she made a point of Harriet ' s going with her , that the worst of the business might be gone through as soon as possible .
As for Mr . Elton , his manners did not appear -- but no , she would not permit a hasty or a witty word from herself about his manners .
If not wise or refined herself , she would have connected him with those who were ; but Miss Hawkins , it might be fairly supposed from her easy conceit , had been the best of her own set .
Mrs . Elton seemed most favourably impressed by the size of the room , the entrance , and all that she could see or imagine .
" My brother and sister have promised us a visit in the spring , or summer at farthest ," continued Mrs . Elton ; " and that will be our time for exploring .
I think , on the contrary , when people shut themselves up entirely from society , it is a very bad thing ; and that it is much more advisable to mix in the world in a proper degree , without living in it either too much or too little .
I think , Miss Woodhouse , you and I must establish a musical club , and have regular weekly meetings at your house , or ours .
He had the air of congratulating himself on having brought such a woman to Highbury , as not even Miss Woodhouse could equal ; and the greater part of her new acquaintance , disposed to commend , or not in the habit of judging , following the lead of Miss Bates ' s good - will , or taking it for granted that the bride must be as clever and as agreeable as she professed herself , were very well satisfied ; so that Mrs . Elton ' s praise passed from one mouth to another as it ought to do , unimpeded by Miss Woodhouse , who readily continued her first contribution and talked with a good grace of her being " very pleasant and very elegantly dressed ."
Not merely when a state of warfare with one young lady might be supposed to recommend the other , but from the very first ; and she was not satisfied with expressing a natural and reasonable admiration -- but without solicitation , or plea , or privilege , she must be wanting to assist and befriend her .-- Before Emma had forfeited her confidence , and about the third time of their meeting , she heard all Mrs . Elton ' s knight - errantry on the subject .--
" You appear to feel a great deal -- but I am not aware how you or any of Miss Fairfax ' s acquaintance here , any of those who have known her longer than yourself , can shew her any other attention than "--
This was astonishing !-- She could not have believed it possible that the taste or the pride of Miss Fairfax could endure such society and friendship as the Vicarage had to offer .
" She must be under some sort of penance , inflicted either by the Campbells or herself .
We all know the difference between the pronouns he or she and thou , the plainest spoken amongst us ; we all feel the influence of a something beyond common civility in our personal intercourse with each other -- a something more early implanted .
The extent of your admiration may take you by surprize some day or other ."
Mr . Knightley was hard at work upon the lower buttons of his thick leather gaiters , and either the exertion of getting them together , or some other cause , brought the colour into his face , as he answered ,
no , upon my word I have not the smallest wish for your marrying Jane Fairfax or Jane any body .
Cole does not want to be wiser or wittier than his neighbours ."
I have no faith in Mrs . Elton ' s acknowledging herself the inferior in thought , word , or deed ; or in her being under any restraint beyond her own scanty rule of good - breeding .
They must not do less than others , or she should be exposed to odious suspicions , and imagined capable of pitiful resentment .
" I hope you did not venture far , Miss Fairfax , this morning , or I am sure you must have been wet .-- We scarcely got home in time .
Better wait an hour or two , or even half a day for your letters , than run the risk of bringing on your cough again .
" So seldom that any negligence or blunder appears !
She could have made an inquiry or two , as to the expedition and the expense of the Irish mails ;-- it was at her tongue ' s end -- but she abstained .
She and Mrs . Weston were obliged to be almost always either talking together or silent together .
" But I have never fixed on June or any other month -- merely looked forward to the summer in general ."
I shall write to Mrs . Partridge in a day or two , and shall give her a strict charge to be on the look - out for any thing eligible ."
" But , my dear child , the time is drawing near ; here is April , and June , or say even July , is very near , with such business to accomplish before us .
" Aye , _that_ may suit your humble ideas of yourself ;-- I know what a modest creature you are ; but it will not satisfy your friends to have you taking up with any thing that may offer , any inferior , commonplace situation , in a family not moving in a certain circle , or able to command the elegancies of life ."
Your musical knowledge alone would entitle you to name your own terms , have as many rooms as you like , and mix in the family as much as you chose ;-- that is -- I do not know -- if you knew the harp , you might do all that , I am very sure ; but you sing as well as play ;-- yes , I really believe you might , even without the harp , stipulate for what you chose ;-- and you must and shall be delightfully , honourably and comfortably settled before the Campbells or I have any rest ."
For two or three months longer I shall remain where I am , and as I am ."
Well , what do you say to it ?-- I always told you he would be here again soon , did not I ?-- Anne , my dear , did not I always tell you so , and you would not believe me ?-- In town next week , you see -- at the latest , I dare say ; for _she_ is as impatient as the black gentleman when any thing is to be done ; most likely they will be there to - morrow or Saturday .
It was well that he took every body ' s joy for granted , or he might not have thought either Mr . Woodhouse or Mr . Knightley particularly delighted .
Weston ?-- To Bath , or to Clifton ?"
You seem shut out from every thing -- in the most complete retirement .-- And Mrs . Churchill probably has not health or spirits like Selina to enjoy that sort of seclusion .
May is the very month which Mrs . Churchill is ordered , or has ordered herself , to spend in some warmer place than Enscombe -- in short , to spend in London ; so that we have the agreeable prospect of frequent visits from Frank the whole spring -- precisely the season of the year which one should have chosen for it : days almost at the longest ; weather genial and pleasant , always inviting one out , and never too hot for exercise .
This will be complete enjoyment ; and I do not know , Mrs . Elton , whether the uncertainty of our meetings , the sort of constant expectation there will be of his coming in to - day or to - morrow , and at any hour , may not be more friendly to happiness than having him actually in the house .
And what inclines one less to bear , she has no fair pretence of family or blood .
" I hope I am aware that they may be too noisy for your father -- or even may be some encumbrance to you , if your visiting engagements continue to increase as much as they have done lately ."
Here am I come down for only one day , and you are engaged with a dinner - party !-- When did it happen before , or any thing like it ?
A little while ago , every letter to Isabella brought an account of fresh gaieties ; dinners at Mr . Cole ' s , or balls at the Crown .
And as to my dear little boys , I must say , that if Aunt Emma has not time for them , I do not think they would fare much better with Uncle Knightley , who is absent from home about five hours where she is absent one -- and who , when he is at home , is either reading to himself or settling his accounts ."
She was soon convinced that it was not for herself she was feeling at all apprehensive or embarrassed ; it was for him .
If he were quite sincere , if he really tried to come , it was to be inferred that Mrs . Churchill ' s removal to London had been of no service to the wilful or nervous part of her disorder .
He did not believe it to proceed from any thing that care and medicine might not remove , or at least that she might not have many years of existence before her ; but he could not be prevailed on , by all his father ' s doubts , to say that her complaints were merely imaginary , or that she was as strong as ever .
He was looking about , he was going to the door , he was watching for the sound of other carriages ,-- impatient to begin , or afraid of being always near her .
I have never seen either Mr . or Mrs . Elton .
I think him a very handsome young man , and his manners are precisely what I like and approve -- so truly the gentleman , without the least conceit or puppyism .
Mrs . Elton had most kindly sent Jane a note , or we should have been .-- But two such offers in one day !-- Never were such neighbours .
My dear Jane , are you sure you did not wet your feet ?-- It was but a drop or two , but I am so afraid :-- but Mr . Frank Churchill was so extremely -- and there was a mat to step upon -- I shall never forget his extreme politeness .-- Oh !
He did not omit being sometimes directly before Miss Smith , or speaking to those who were close to her .-- Emma saw it .
How the trampers might have behaved , had the young ladies been more courageous , must be doubtful ; but such an invitation for attack could not be resisted ; and Harriet was soon assailed by half a dozen children , headed by a stout woman and a great boy , all clamorous , and impertinent in look , though not absolutely in word .-- More and more frightened , she immediately promised them money , and taking out her purse , gave them a shilling , and begged them not to want more , or to use her ill .-- She was then able to walk , though but slowly , and was moving away -- but her terror and her purse were too tempting , and she was followed , or rather surrounded , by the whole gang , demanding more .
The pleasantness of the morning had induced him to walk forward , and leave his horses to meet him by another road , a mile or two beyond Highbury -- and happening to have borrowed a pair of scissors the night before of Miss Bates , and to have forgotten to restore them , he had been obliged to stop at her door , and go in for a few minutes : he was therefore later than he had intended ; and being on foot , was unseen by the whole party till almost close to them .
I can see nothing at all extraordinary in him now .-- I do not care whether I meet him or not -- except that of the two I had rather not see him -- and indeed I would go any distance round to avoid him -- but I do not envy his wife in the least ; I neither admire her nor envy her , as I have done : she is very charming , I dare say , and all that , but I think her very ill - tempered and disagreeable -- I shall never forget her look the other night !-- However , I assure you , Miss Woodhouse , I wish her no evil .-- No , let them be ever so happy together , it will not give me another moment ' s pang : and to convince you that I have been speaking truth , I am now going to destroy -- what I ought to have destroyed long ago -- what I ought never to have kept -- I know that very well ( blushing as she spoke ).-- However , now I will destroy it all -- and it is my particular wish to do it in your presence , that you may see how rational I am grown .
But one morning -- I forget exactly the day -- but perhaps it was the Tuesday or Wednesday before _that_ _evening_ , he wanted to make a memorandum in his pocket - book ; it was about spruce - beer .
I have nothing more to shew you , or to say -- except that I am now going to throw them both behind the fire , and I wish you to see me do it ."
Emma then looked up , and immediately saw how it was ; and after a moment ' s debate , as to whether it should pass unnoticed or not , replied ,
Should she proceed no farther ?-- should she let it pass , and seem to suspect nothing ?-- Perhaps Harriet might think her cold or angry if she did ; or perhaps if she were totally silent , it might only drive Harriet into asking her to hear too much ; and against any thing like such an unreserve as had been , such an open and frequent discussion of hopes and chances , she was perfectly resolved .-- She believed it would be wiser for her to say and know at once , all that she meant to say and know .
Your resolution , or rather your expectation of never marrying , results from an idea that the person whom you might prefer , would be too greatly your superior in situation to think of you .
and his wife ' s persuading him to it , out of care for his health -- just what will happen , I have no doubt , some time or other ; only a little premature .
From Frank Churchill ' s face , where he thought he saw confusion suppressed or laughed away , he had involuntarily turned to hers ; but she was indeed behind , and too busy with her shawl .
There was no time for farther remark or explanation .
They were rapidly forming words for each other , or for any body else who would be puzzled .
The quietness of the game made it particularly eligible for Mr . Woodhouse , who had often been distressed by the more animated sort , which Mr . Weston had occasionally introduced , and who now sat happily occupied in lamenting , with tender melancholy , over the departure of the " poor little boys ," or in fondly pointing out , as he took up any stray letter near him , how beautifully Emma had written it .
" Have you never at any time had reason to think that he admired her , or that she admired him ?"
There is no admiration between them , I do assure you ; and the appearances which have caught you , have arisen from some peculiar circumstances -- feelings rather of a totally different nature -- it is impossible exactly to explain :-- there is a good deal of nonsense in it -- but the part which is capable of being communicated , which is sense , is , that they are as far from any attachment or admiration for one another , as any two beings in the world can be .
Two or three more of the chosen only were to be admitted to join them , and it was to be done in a quiet , unpretending , elegant way , infinitely superior to the bustle and preparation , the regular eating and drinking , and picnic parade of the Eltons and the Sucklings .
There is to be no form or parade -- a sort of gipsy party .
And , by the bye , can I or my housekeeper be of any use to you with our opinion ?-- Pray be sincere , Knightley .
If you wish me to talk to Mrs . Hodges , or to inspect anything --"
He wished to persuade Mr . Woodhouse , as well as Emma , to join the party ; and he knew that to have any of them sitting down out of doors to eat would inevitably make him ill . Mr . Woodhouse must not , under the specious pretence of a morning drive , and an hour or two spent at Donwell , be tempted away to his misery .
Under a bright mid - day sun , at almost Midsummer , Mr . Woodhouse was safely conveyed in his carriage , with one window down , to partake of this al - fresco party ; and in one of the most comfortable rooms in the Abbey , especially prepared for him by a fire all the morning , he was happily placed , quite at his ease , ready to talk with pleasure of what had been achieved , and advise every body to come and sit down , and not to heat themselves .-- Mrs . Weston , who seemed to have walked there on purpose to be tired , and sit all the time with him , remained , when all the others were invited or persuaded out , his patient listener and sympathiser .
She felt all the honest pride and complacency which her alliance with the present and future proprietor could fairly warrant , as she viewed the respectable size and style of the building , its suitable , becoming , characteristic situation , low and sheltered -- its ample gardens stretching down to meadows washed by a stream , of which the Abbey , with all the old neglect of prospect , had scarcely a sight -- and its abundance of timber in rows and avenues , which neither fashion nor extravagance had rooted up .-- The house was larger than Hartfield , and totally unlike it , covering a good deal of ground , rambling and irregular , with many comfortable , and one or two handsome rooms .-- It was just what it ought to be , and it looked what it was -- and Emma felt an increasing respect for it , as the residence of a family of such true gentility , untainted in blood and understanding .-- Some faults of temper John Knightley had ; but Isabella had connected herself unexceptionably .
These were pleasant feelings , and she walked about and indulged them till it was necessary to do as the others did , and collect round the strawberry - beds .-- The whole party were assembled , excepting Frank Churchill , who was expected every moment from Richmond ; and Mrs . Elton , in all her apparatus of happiness , her large bonnet and her basket , was very ready to lead the way in gathering , accepting , or talking -- strawberries , and only strawberries , could now be thought or spoken of .--" The best fruit in England -- every body ' s favourite -- always wholesome .-- These the finest beds and finest sorts .-- Delightful to gather for one ' s self -- the only way of really enjoying them .-- Morning decidedly the best time -- never tired -- every sort good -- hautboy infinitely superior -- no comparison -- the others hardly eatable -- hautboys very scarce -- Chili preferred -- white wood finest flavour of all -- price of strawberries in London -- abundance about Bristol -- Maple Grove -- cultivation -- beds when to be renewed -- gardeners thinking exactly different -- no general rule -- gardeners never to be put out of their way -- delicious fruit -- only too rich to be eaten much of -- inferior to cherries -- currants more refreshing -- only objection to gathering strawberries the stooping -- glaring sun -- tired to death -- could bear it no longer -- must go and sit in the shade ."
Churchill ' s state , however , as many were ready to remind her , was liable to such sudden variation as might disappoint her nephew in the most reasonable dependence -- and Mrs . Weston was at last persuaded to believe , or to say , that it must be by some attack of Mrs . Churchill that he was prevented coming .-- Emma looked at Harriet while the point was under consideration ; she behaved very well , and betrayed no emotion .
The cold repast was over , and the party were to go out once more to see what had not yet been seen , the old Abbey fish - ponds ; perhaps get as far as the clover , which was to be begun cutting on the morrow , or , at any rate , have the pleasure of being hot , and growing cool again .-- Mr .
You will have my sketches , some time or other , to look at -- or my tour to read -- or my poem .
I do not look upon myself as either prosperous or indulged .
Mr . and Mrs . Elton , indeed , shewed no unwillingness to mix , and be as agreeable as they could ; but during the two whole hours that were spent on the hill , there seemed a principle of separation , between the other parties , too strong for any fine prospects , or any cold collation , or any cheerful Mr . Weston , to remove .
She laughed because she was disappointed ; and though she liked him for his attentions , and thought them all , whether in friendship , admiration , or playfulness , extremely judicious , they were not winning back her heart .
You had , somehow or other , broken bounds yesterday , and run away from your own management ; but to - day you are got back again -- and as I cannot be always with you , it is best to believe your temper under your own command rather than mine ."
You order me , whether you speak or not .
My perpetual influence could not begin earlier , or you would not have been so much out of humour before ."
There are one or two , perhaps , ( glancing at Mr . Weston and Harriet ,) whose thoughts I might not be afraid of knowing ."
Here are seven of you , besides myself , ( who , she is pleased to say , am very entertaining already ,) and she only demands from each of you either one thing very clever , be it prose or verse , original or repeated -- or two things moderately clever -- or three things very dull indeed , and she engages to laugh heartily at them all ."
I must make myself very disagreeable , or she would not have said such a thing to an old friend ."
" Yes , yes , pray pass _me_ ," added her husband , with a sort of sneering consciousness ; " _I_ have nothing to say that can entertain Miss Woodhouse , or any other young lady .
Peculiarly lucky !-- for as to any real knowledge of a person ' s disposition that Bath , or any public place , can give -- it is all nothing ; there can be no knowledge .
Even Emma grew tired at last of flattery and merriment , and wished herself rather walking quietly about with any of the others , or sitting almost alone , and quite unattended to , in tranquil observation of the beautiful views beneath her .
You , whom she had known from an infant , whom she had seen grow up from a period when her notice was an honour , to have you now , in thoughtless spirits , and the pride of the moment , laugh at her , humble her -- and before her niece , too -- and before others , many of whom ( certainly _some_ ,) would be entirely guided by _your_ treatment of her .-- This is not pleasant to you , Emma -- and it is very far from pleasant to me ; but I must , I will ,-- I will tell you truths while I can ; satisfied with proving myself your friend by very faithful counsel , and trusting that you will some time or other do me greater justice than you can do now ."
It was not unlikely , she thought , that she might see Mr . Knightley in her way ; or , perhaps , he might come in while she were paying her visit .
She had never rejoiced at the sound before , nor ever before entered the passage , nor walked up the stairs , with any wish of giving pleasure , but in conferring obligation , or of deriving it , except in subsequent ridicule .
This does not seem much like joy , indeed , in me --( twinkling away a tear or two )-- but it will be very trying for us to part with her , after having had her so long , and she has a dreadful headache just now , writing all the morning :-- such long letters , you know , to be written to Colonel Campbell , and Mrs . Dixon .
` Well ,' said she , ` it must be borne some time or other , and it may as well be now .'
Her heart had been long growing kinder towards Jane ; and this picture of her present sufferings acted as a cure of every former ungenerous suspicion , and left her nothing but pity ; and the remembrance of the less just and less gentle sensations of the past , obliged her to admit that Jane might very naturally resolve on seeing Mrs . Cole or any other steady friend , when she might not bear to see herself .
There was nothing in all this either to astonish or interest , and it caught Emma ' s attention only as it united with the subject which already engaged her mind .
-- And to this day , I do believe , she knows not whether it was his present or his daughter ' s ."
Have you any thing to send or say , besides the ` love ,' which nobody carries ?"
She was warmly gratified -- and in another moment still more so , by a little movement of more than common friendliness on his part .-- He took her hand ;-- whether she had not herself made the first motion , she could not say -- she might , perhaps , have rather offered it -- but he took her hand , pressed it , and certainly was on the point of carrying it to his lips -- when , from some fancy or other , he suddenly let it go .-- Why he should feel such a scruple , why he should change his mind when it was all but done , she could not perceive .-- He would have judged better , she thought , if he had not stopped .-- The intention , however , was indubitable ; and whether it was that his manners had in general so little gallantry , or however else it happened , but she thought nothing became him more .-- It was with him , of so simple , yet so dignified a nature .-- She could not but recall the attempt with great satisfaction .
She had scarcely a stronger regret than for her past coldness ; and the person , whom she had been so many months neglecting , was now the very one on whom she would have lavished every distinction of regard or sympathy .
To take her -- be it only an hour or two -- from her aunt , to give her change of air and scene , and quiet rational conversation , even for an hour or two , might do her good ; and the following morning she wrote again to say , in the most feeling language she could command , that she would call for her in the carriage at any hour that Jane would name -- mentioning that she had Mr . Perry ' s decided opinion , in favour of such exercise for his patient .
Emma felt that her own note had deserved something better ; but it was impossible to quarrel with words , whose tremulous inequality shewed indisposition so plainly , and she thought only of how she might best counteract this unwillingness to be seen or assisted .
Her heart was grieved for a state which seemed but the more pitiable from this sort of irritation of spirits , inconsistency of action , and inequality of powers ; and it mortified her that she was given so little credit for proper feeling , or esteemed so little worthy as a friend : but she had the consolation of knowing that her intentions were good , and of being able to say to herself , that could Mr . Knightley have been privy to all her attempts of assisting Jane Fairfax , could he even have seen into her heart , he would not , on this occasion , have found any thing to reprove .
It was a private resolution of hers , not communicated to him -- or at least not communicated in a way to carry conviction .-- Till yesterday , I know he said he was in the dark as to her plans .
They burst on him , I do not know how , but by some letter or message -- and it was the discovery of what she was doing , of this very project of hers , which determined him to come forward at once , own it all to his uncle , throw himself on his kindness , and , in short , put an end to the miserable state of concealment that had been carrying on so long ."
A glance or two between him and his wife , convinced him that all was as right as this speech proclaimed ; and its happy effect on his spirits was immediate .
His companions suggested only what could palliate imprudence , or smooth objections ; and by the time they had talked it all over together , and he had talked it all over again with Emma , in their walk back to Hartfield , he was become perfectly reconciled , and not far from thinking it the very best thing that Frank could possibly have done .
No doubt it had been from jealousy .-- In Jane ' s eyes she had been a rival ; and well might any thing she could offer of assistance or regard be repulsed .
replied Emma , unable to guess , by look or voice , whether Harriet could indeed have received any hint .
She seemed to propose shewing no agitation , or disappointment , or peculiar concern in the discovery .
" I do not wonder , Miss Woodhouse ," she resumed , " that you should feel a great difference between the two , as to me or as to any body .
Some portion of respect for herself , however , in spite of all these demerits -- some concern for her own appearance , and a strong sense of justice by Harriet --( there would be no need of _compassion_ to the girl who believed herself loved by Mr . Knightley -- but justice required that she should not be made unhappy by any coldness now ,) gave Emma the resolution to sit and endure farther with calmness , with even apparent kindness .-- For her own advantage indeed , it was fit that the utmost extent of Harriet ' s hopes should be enquired into ; and Harriet had done nothing to forfeit the regard and interest which had been so voluntarily formed and maintained -- or to deserve to be slighted by the person , whose counsels had never led her right .-- Rousing from reflection , therefore , and subduing her emotion , she turned to Harriet again , and , in a more inviting accent , renewed the conversation ; for as to the subject which had first introduced it , the wonderful story of Jane Fairfax , that was quite sunk and lost .-- Neither of them thought but of Mr . Knightley and themselves .
Her voice was not unsteady ; but her mind was in all the perturbation that such a development of self , such a burst of threatening evil , such a confusion of sudden and perplexing emotions , must create .-- She listened with much inward suffering , but with great outward patience , to Harriet ' s detail .-- Methodical , or well arranged , or very well delivered , it could not be expected to be ; but it contained , when separated from all the feebleness and tautology of the narration , a substance to sink her spirit -- especially with the corroborating circumstances , which her own memory brought in favour of Mr . Knightley ' s most improved opinion of Harriet .
From that evening , or at least from the time of Miss Woodhouse ' s encouraging her to think of him , Harriet had begun to be sensible of his talking to her much more than he had been used to do , and of his having indeed quite a different manner towards her ; a manner of kindness and sweetness !-- Latterly she had been more and more aware of it .
He praised her for being without art or affectation , for having simple , honest , generous , feelings .-- She knew that he saw such recommendations in Harriet ; he had dwelt on them to her more than once .-- Much that lived in Harriet ' s memory , many little particulars of the notice she had received from him , a look , a speech , a removal from one chair to another , a compliment implied , a preference inferred , had been unnoticed , because unsuspected , by Emma .
I hope I know better now , than to care for Mr . Martin , or to be suspected of it ."
had it , by any blessed felicity , occurred to her , to institute the comparison .-- She saw that there never had been a time when she did not consider Mr . Knightley as infinitely the superior , or when his regard for her had not been infinitely the most dear .
Mr . Knightley and Harriet Smith !-- It was a union to distance every wonder of the kind .-- The attachment of Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax became commonplace , threadbare , stale in the comparison , exciting no surprize , presenting no disparity , affording nothing to be said or thought .-- Mr .
Was it new for one , perhaps too busy to seek , to be the prize of a girl who would seek him ?-- Was it new for any thing in this world to be unequal , inconsistent , incongruous -- or for chance and circumstance ( as second causes ) to direct the human fate ?
Knightley !-- How she could dare to fancy herself the chosen of such a man till actually assured of it !-- But Harriet was less humble , had fewer scruples than formerly .-- Her inferiority , whether of mind or situation , seemed little felt .-- She had seemed more sensible of Mr . Elton ' s being to stoop in marrying her , than she now seemed of Mr .
She had not deserved it ; she had often been negligent or perverse , slighting his advice , or even wilfully opposing him , insensible of half his merits , and quarrelling with him because he would not acknowledge her false and insolent estimate of her own -- but still , from family attachment and habit , and thorough excellence of mind , he had loved her , and watched over her from a girl , with an endeavour to improve her , and an anxiety for her doing right , which no other creature had at all shared .
This point was just arranged , when a visitor arrived to tear Emma ' s thoughts a little from the one subject which had engrossed them , sleeping or waking , the last twenty - four hours -- Mrs . Weston , who had been calling on her daughter - in - law elect , and took Hartfield in her way home , almost as much in duty to Emma as in pleasure to herself , to relate all the particulars of so interesting an interview .
Mrs . Weston had set off to pay the visit in a good deal of agitation herself ; and in the first place had wished not to go at all at present , to be allowed merely to write to Miss Fairfax instead , and to defer this ceremonious call till a little time had passed , and Mr . Churchill could be reconciled to the engagement ' s becoming known ; as , considering every thing , she thought such a visit could not be paid without leading to reports :-- but Mr . Weston had thought differently ; he was extremely anxious to shew his approbation to Miss Fairfax and her family , and did not conceive that any suspicion could be excited by it ; or if it were , that it would be of any consequence ; for " such things ," he observed , " always got about ."
Do not let any reflection fall on the principles or the care of the friends who brought me up .
She talked with a great deal of reason , and at least equal affection -- but she had too much to urge for Emma ' s attention ; it was soon gone to Brunswick Square or to Donwell ; she forgot to attempt to listen ; and when Mrs . Weston ended with , " We have not yet had the letter we are so anxious for , you know , but I hope it will soon come ," she was obliged to pause before she answered , and at last obliged to answer at random , before she could at all recollect what letter it was which they were so anxious for .
Had she followed Mr . Knightley ' s known wishes , in paying that attention to Miss Fairfax , which was every way her due ; had she tried to know her better ; had she done her part towards intimacy ; had she endeavoured to find a friend there instead of in Harriet Smith ; she must , in all probability , have been spared from every pain which pressed on her now .-- Birth , abilities , and education , had been equally marking one as an associate for her , to be received with gratitude ; and the other -- what was she ?-- Supposing even that they had never become intimate friends ; that she had never been admitted into Miss Fairfax ' s confidence on this important matter -- which was most probable -- still , in knowing her as she ought , and as she might , she must have been preserved from the abominable suspicions of an improper attachment to Mr . Dixon , which she had not only so foolishly fashioned and harboured herself , but had so unpardonably imparted ; an idea which she greatly feared had been made a subject of material distress to the delicacy of Jane ' s feelings , by the levity or carelessness of Frank Churchill ' s .
They would be married , and settled either at or near Enscombe .
All that were good would be withdrawn ; and if to these losses , the loss of Donwell were to be added , what would remain of cheerful or of rational society within their reach ?
When it came to such a pitch as this , she was not able to refrain from a start , or a heavy sigh , or even from walking about the room for a few seconds -- and the only source whence any thing like consolation or composure could be drawn , was in the resolution of her own better conduct , and the hope that , however inferior in spirit and gaiety might be the following and every future winter of her life to the past , it would yet find her more rational , more acquainted with herself , and leave her less to regret when it were gone .
For a moment or two nothing was said , and she was unsuspicious of having excited any particular interest , till she found her arm drawn within his , and pressed against his heart , and heard him thus saying , in a tone of great sensibility , speaking low ,
It was merely a blind to conceal his real situation with another .-- It was his object to blind all about him ; and no one , I am sure , could be more effectually blinded than myself -- except that I was _not_ blinded -- that it was my good fortune -- that , in short , I was somehow or other safe from him ."
She might assist his resolution , or reconcile him to it ; she might give just praise to Harriet , or , by representing to him his own independence , relieve him from that state of indecision , which must be more intolerable than any alternative to such a mind as his .-- They had reached the house .
And , after proceeding a few steps , she added -- " I stopped you ungraciously , just now , Mr . Knightley , and , I am afraid , gave you pain .-- But if you have any wish to speak openly to me as a friend , or to ask my opinion of any thing that you may have in contemplation -- as a friend , indeed , you may command me .-- I will hear whatever you like .
While he spoke , Emma ' s mind was most busy , and , with all the wonderful velocity of thought , had been able -- and yet without losing a word -- to catch and comprehend the exact truth of the whole ; to see that Harriet ' s hopes had been entirely groundless , a mistake , a delusion , as complete a delusion as any of her own -- that Harriet was nothing ; that she was every thing herself ; that what she had been saying relative to Harriet had been all taken as the language of her own feelings ; and that her agitation , her doubts , her reluctance , her discouragement , had been all received as discouragement from herself .-- And not only was there time for these convictions , with all their glow of attendant happiness ; there was time also to rejoice that Harriet ' s secret had not escaped her , and to resolve that it need not , and should not .-- It was all the service she could now render her poor friend ; for as to any of that heroism of sentiment which might have prompted her to entreat him to transfer his affection from herself to Harriet , as infinitely the most worthy of the two -- or even the more simple sublimity of resolving to refuse him at once and for ever , without vouchsafing any motive , because he could not marry them both , Emma had it not .
She felt for Harriet , with pain and with contrition ; but no flight of generosity run mad , opposing all that could be probable or reasonable , entered her brain .
Seldom , very seldom , does complete truth belong to any human disclosure ; seldom can it happen that something is not a little disguised , or a little mistaken ; but where , as in this case , though the conduct is mistaken , the feelings are not , it may not be very material .-- Mr . Knightley could not impute to Emma a more relenting heart than she possessed , or a heart more disposed to accept of his .
He had come , in his anxiety to see how she bore Frank Churchill ' s engagement , with no selfish view , no view at all , but of endeavouring , if she allowed him an opening , to soothe or to counsel her .-- The rest had been the work of the moment , the immediate effect of what he heard , on his feelings .
_Her_ change was equal .-- This one half - hour had given to each the same precious certainty of being beloved , had cleared from each the same degree of ignorance , jealousy , or distrust .-- On his side , there had been a long - standing jealousy , old as the arrival , or even the expectation , of Frank Churchill .-- He had been in love with Emma , and jealous of Frank Churchill , from about the same period , one sentiment having probably enlightened him as to the other .
They sat down to tea -- the same party round the same table -- how often it had been collected !-- and how often had her eyes fallen on the same shrubs in the lawn , and observed the same beautiful effect of the western sun !-- But never in such a state of spirits , never in any thing like it ; and it was with difficulty that she could summon enough of her usual self to be the attentive lady of the house , or even the attentive daughter .
Poor Mr . Woodhouse little suspected what was plotting against him in the breast of that man whom he was so cordially welcoming , and so anxiously hoping might not have taken cold from his ride .-- Could he have seen the heart , he would have cared very little for the lungs ; but without the most distant imagination of the impending evil , without the slightest perception of any thing extraordinary in the looks or ways of either , he repeated to them very comfortably all the articles of news he had received from Mr . Perry , and talked on with much self - contentment , totally unsuspicious of what they could have told him in return .
As long as Mr . Knightley remained with them , Emma ' s fever continued ; but when he was gone , she began to be a little tranquillised and subdued -- and in the course of the sleepless night , which was the tax for such an evening , she found one or two such very serious points to consider , as made her feel , that even her happiness must have some alloy .
" If I made myself intelligible yesterday , this letter will be expected ; but expected or not , I know it will be read with candour and indulgence .-- You are all goodness , and I believe there will be need of even all your goodness to allow for some parts of my past conduct .-- But I have been forgiven by one who had still more to resent .
If you need farther explanation , I have the honour , my dear madam , of being your husband ' s son , and the advantage of inheriting a disposition to hope for good , which no inheritance of houses or lands can ever equal the value of .-- See me , then , under these circumstances , arriving on my first visit to Randalls ;-- and here I am conscious of wrong , for that visit might have been sooner paid .
And now I come to the principal , the only important part of my conduct while belonging to you , which excites my own anxiety , or requires very solicitous explanation .
Acquit me here , and procure for me , when it is allowable , the acquittal and good wishes of that said Emma Woodhouse , whom I regard with so much brotherly affection , as to long to have her as deeply and as happily in love as myself .-- Whatever strange things I said or did during that fortnight , you have now a key to .
Remember how few minutes I was at Randalls , and in how bewildered , how mad a state : and I am not much better yet ; still insane either from happiness or misery .
When he came to Miss Woodhouse , he was obliged to read the whole of it aloud -- all that related to her , with a smile ; a look ; a shake of the head ; a word or two of assent , or disapprobation ; or merely of love , as the subject required ; concluding , however , seriously , and , after steady reflection , thus --
She promised to think of it , and advised him to think of it more ; but he was fully convinced , that no reflection could alter his wishes or his opinion on the subject .
Think she must of the possible difference to the poor little boy ; and yet she only gave herself a saucy conscious smile about it , and found amusement in detecting the real cause of that violent dislike of Mr . Knightley ' s marrying Jane Fairfax , or any body else , which at the time she had wholly imputed to the amiable solicitude of the sister and the aunt .
Harriet expressed herself very much as might be supposed , without reproaches , or apparent sense of ill - usage ; and yet Emma fancied there was a something of resentment , a something bordering on it in her style , which increased the desirableness of their being separate .-- It might be only her own consciousness ; but it seemed as if an angel only could have been quite without resentment under such a stroke .
The difference of Harriet at Mrs . Goddard ' s , or in London , made perhaps an unreasonable difference in Emma ' s sensations ; but she could not think of her in London without objects of curiosity and employment , which must be averting the past , and carrying her out of herself .
There was consciousness , animation , and warmth ; there was every thing which her countenance or manner could ever have wanted .-- She came forward with an offered hand ; and said , in a low , but very feeling tone ,
" Upon my word it is , Miss Bates .-- He really is engaged from morning to night .-- There is no end of people ' s coming to him , on some pretence or other .-- The magistrates , and overseers , and churchwardens , are always wanting his opinion .
" How often , when you were a girl , have you said to me , with one of your saucy looks --` Mr . Knightley , I am going to do so - and - so ; papa says I may , or I have Miss Taylor ' s leave '-- something which , you knew , I did not approve .
" He and I should differ very little in our estimation of the two ," interrupted she , with a sort of serious smile --" much less , perhaps , than he is aware of , if we could enter without ceremony or reserve on the subject ."
What has he been judging by ?-- I am not conscious of any difference in my spirits or conversation that could prepare him at this time for my marrying any more than at another .-- But it was so , I suppose .
As soon as Mrs . Weston was sufficiently recovered to admit Mr . Woodhouse ' s visits , Emma having it in view that her gentle reasonings should be employed in the cause , resolved first to announce it at home , and then at Randalls .-- But how to break it to her father at last !-- She had bound herself to do it , in such an hour of Mr . Knightley ' s absence , or when it came to the point her heart would have failed her , and she must have put it off ; but Mr . Knightley was to come at such a time , and follow up the beginning she was to make .-- She was forced to speak , and to speak cheerfully too .
Emma hung about him affectionately , and smiled , and said it must be so ; and that he must not class her with Isabella and Mrs . Weston , whose marriages taking them from Hartfield , had , indeed , made a melancholy change : but she was not going from Hartfield ; she should be always there ; she was introducing no change in their numbers or their comforts but for the better ; and she was very sure that he would be a great deal the happier for having Mr . Knightley always at hand , when he were once got used to the idea .-- Did he not love Mr . Knightley very much ?-- He would not deny that he did , she was sure .-- Whom did he ever want to consult on business but Mr .
Mr . Woodhouse could not be soon reconciled ; but the worst was overcome , the idea was given ; time and continual repetition must do the rest .-- To Emma ' s entreaties and assurances succeeded Mr . Knightley ' s , whose fond praise of her gave the subject even a kind of welcome ; and he was soon used to be talked to by each , on every fair occasion .-- They had all the assistance which Isabella could give , by letters of the strongest approbation ; and Mrs . Weston was ready , on the first meeting , to consider the subject in the most serviceable light -- first , as a settled , and , secondly , as a good one -- well aware of the nearly equal importance of the two recommendations to Mr . Woodhouse ' s mind .-- It was agreed upon , as what was to be ; and every body by whom he was used to be guided assuring him that it would be for his happiness ; and having some feelings himself which almost admitted it , he began to think that some time or other -- in another year or two , perhaps -- it might not be so very bad if the marriage did take place .
It was a union of the highest promise of felicity in itself , and without one real , rational difficulty to oppose or delay it .
" Good or bad ?"
but why so ?-- I can hardly imagine that any thing which pleases or amuses you , should not please and amuse me too ."
Time , you may be sure , will make one or the other of us think differently ; and , in the meanwhile , we need not talk much on the subject ."
She must wait a moment , or he would think her mad .
I could suppose she might in time -- but can she already ?-- Did not you misunderstand him ?-- You were both talking of other things ; of business , shows of cattle , or new drills -- and might not you , in the confusion of so many subjects , mistake him ?-- It was not Harriet ' s hand that he was certain of -- it was the dimensions of some famous ox ."
He knew of no one but Mrs . Goddard to whom he could apply for information of her relations or friends .
In the gayest and happiest spirits she set forward with her father ; not always listening , but always agreeing to what he said ; and , whether in speech or silence , conniving at the comfortable persuasion of his being obliged to go to Randalls every day , or poor Mrs . Weston would be disappointed .
When Mr . Weston joined the party , however , and when the baby was fetched , there was no longer a want of subject or animation -- or of courage and opportunity for Frank Churchill to draw near her and say ,
" The shame ," he answered , " is all mine , or ought to be .
She proved to be the daughter of a tradesman , rich enough to afford her the comfortable maintenance which had ever been hers , and decent enough to have always wished for concealment .-- Such was the blood of gentility which Emma had formerly been so ready to vouch for !-- It was likely to be as untainted , perhaps , as the blood of many a gentleman : but what a connexion had she been preparing for Mr . Knightley -- or for the Churchills -- or even for Mr .
Elton !-- The stain of illegitimacy , unbleached by nobility or wealth , would have been a stain indeed .
She would be respectable and happy ; and Emma admitted her to be the luckiest creature in the world , to have created so steady and persevering an affection in such a man ;-- or , if not quite the luckiest , to yield only to herself .
In this state of suspense they were befriended , not by any sudden illumination of Mr . Woodhouse ' s mind , or any wonderful change of his nervous system , but by the operation of the same system in another way .-- Mrs . Weston ' s poultry - house was robbed one night of all her turkeys -- evidently by the ingenuity of man .
The wedding was very much like other weddings , where the parties have no taste for finery or parade ; and Mrs . Elton , from the particulars detailed by her husband , thought it all extremely shabby , and very inferior to her own .--" Very little white satin , very few lace veils ; a most pitiful business !-- Selina would stare when she heard of it ."
