Mr . Dashwood had wished for it more for the sake of his wife and daughters than for himself or his son ;-- but to his son , and his son ' s son , a child of four years old , it was secured , in such a way , as to leave to himself no power of providing for those who were most dear to him , and who most needed a provision by any charge on the estate , or by any sale of its valuable woods .
The whole was tied up for the benefit of this child , who , in occasional visits with his father and mother at Norland , had so far gained on the affections of his uncle , by such attractions as are by no means unusual in children of two or three years old ; an imperfect articulation , an earnest desire of having his own way , many cunning tricks , and a great deal of noise , as to outweigh all the value of all the attention which , for years , he had received from his niece and her daughters .
No one could dispute her right to come ; the house was her husband ' s from the moment of his father ' s decease ; but the indelicacy of her conduct was so much the greater , and to a woman in Mrs . Dashwood ' s situation , with only common feelings , must have been highly unpleasing ;-- but in HER mind there was a sense of honor so keen , a generosity so romantic , that any offence of the kind , by whomsoever given or received , was to her a source of immoveable disgust .
In seasons of cheerfulness , no temper could be more cheerful than hers , or possess , in a greater degree , that sanguine expectation of happiness which is happiness itself .
It may be very inconvenient some years to spare a hundred , or even fifty pounds from our own expenses ."
The contempt which she had , very early in their acquaintance , felt for her daughter - in - law , was very much increased by the farther knowledge of her character , which half a year ' s residence in her family afforded ; and perhaps in spite of every consideration of politeness or maternal affection on the side of the former , the two ladies might have found it impossible to have lived together so long , had not a particular circumstance occurred to give still greater eligibility , according to the opinions of Mrs . Dashwood , to her daughters ' continuance at Norland .
Edward Ferrars was not recommended to their good opinion by any peculiar graces of person or address .
They wanted him to make a fine figure in the world in some manner or other .
His mother wished to interest him in political concerns , to get him into parliament , or to see him connected with some of the great men of the day .
But Edward had no turn for great men or barouches .
At present , I know him so well , that I think him really handsome ; or at least , almost so .
Believe them to be stronger than I have declared ; believe them , in short , to be such as his merit , and the suspicion -- the hope of his affection for me may warrant , without imprudence or folly .
There are moments when the extent of it seems doubtful ; and till his sentiments are fully known , you cannot wonder at my wishing to avoid any encouragement of my own partiality , by believing or calling it more than it is .
What his mother really is we cannot know ; but , from Fanny ' s occasional mention of her conduct and opinions , we have never been disposed to think her amiable ; and I am very much mistaken if Edward is not himself aware that there would be many difficulties in his way , if he were to wish to marry a woman who had not either a great fortune or high rank ."
She gave her an answer which marked her contempt , and instantly left the room , resolving that , whatever might be the inconvenience or expense of so sudden a removal , her beloved Elinor should not be exposed another week to such insinuations .
She needed no time for deliberation or inquiry .
To quit the neighbourhood of Norland was no longer an evil ; it was an object of desire ; it was a blessing , in comparison of the misery of continuing her daughter - in - law ' s guest ; and to remove for ever from that beloved place would be less painful than to inhabit or visit it while such a woman was its mistress .
A room or two can easily be added ; and if my friends find no difficulty in travelling so far to see me , I am sure I will find none in accommodating them ."
happy house , could you know what I suffer in now viewing you from this spot , from whence perhaps I may view you no more !-- And you , ye well - known trees !-- but you will continue the same .-- No leaf will decay because we are removed , nor any branch become motionless although we can observe you no longer !-- No ; you will continue the same ; unconscious of the pleasure or the regret you occasion , and insensible of any change in those who walk under your shade !-- But who will remain to enjoy you ?"
Lady Middleton was not more than six or seven and twenty ; her face was handsome , her figure tall and striking , and her address graceful .
But they would have been improved by some share of his frankness and warmth ; and her visit was long enough to detract something from their first admiration , by shewing that , though perfectly well - bred , she was reserved , cold , and had nothing to say for herself beyond the most common - place inquiry or remark .
In the present case it took up ten minutes to determine whether the boy were most like his father or mother , and in what particular he resembled either , for of course every body differed , and every body was astonished at the opinion of the others .
She was full of jokes and laughter , and before dinner was over had said many witty things on the subject of lovers and husbands ; hoped they had not left their hearts behind them in Sussex , and pretended to see them blush whether they did or not .
Colonel Brandon , the friend of Sir John , seemed no more adapted by resemblance of manner to be his friend , than Lady Middleton was to be his wife , or Mrs . Jennings to be Lady Middleton ' s mother .
To the former her raillery was probably , as far as it regarded only himself , perfectly indifferent ; but to the latter it was at first incomprehensible ; and when its object was understood , she hardly knew whether most to laugh at its absurdity , or censure its impertinence , for she considered it as an unfeeling reflection on the colonel ' s advanced years , and on his forlorn condition as an old bachelor .
" A woman of seven and twenty ," said Marianne , after pausing a moment , " can never hope to feel or inspire affection again , and if her home be uncomfortable , or her fortune small , I can suppose that she might bring herself to submit to the offices of a nurse , for the sake of the provision and security of a wife .
When is she dejected or melancholy ?
When does she try to avoid society , or appear restless and dissatisfied in it ?"
I abhor every common - place phrase by which wit is intended ; and ' setting one ' s cap at a man ,' or ' making a conquest ,' are the most odious of all .
" Ay , you will make conquests enough , I dare say , one way or other .
The same books , the same passages were idolized by each -- or if any difference appeared , any objection arose , it lasted no longer than till the force of her arguments and the brightness of her eyes could be displayed .
In Mrs . Dashwood ' s estimation he was as faultless as in Marianne ' s ; and Elinor saw nothing to censure in him but a propensity , in which he strongly resembled and peculiarly delighted her sister , of saying too much what he thought on every occasion , without attention to persons or circumstances .
Little had Mrs . Dashwood or her daughters imagined when they first came into Devonshire , that so many engagements would arise to occupy their time as shortly presented themselves , or that they should have such frequent invitations and such constant visitors as to leave them little leisure for serious employment .
She only wished that it were less openly shewn ; and once or twice did venture to suggest the propriety of some self - command to Marianne .
She had already repeated her own history to Elinor three or four times ; and had Elinor ' s memory been equal to her means of improvement , she might have known very early in their acquaintance all the particulars of Mr . Jenning ' s last illness , and what he said to his wife a few minutes before he died .
In Colonel Brandon alone , of all her new acquaintance , did Elinor find a person who could in any degree claim the respect of abilities , excite the interest of friendship , or give pleasure as a companion .
Are those who have been disappointed in their first choice , whether from the inconstancy of its object , or the perverseness of circumstances , to be equally indifferent during the rest of their lives ?"
Elinor then ventured to doubt the propriety of her receiving such a present from a man so little , or at least so lately known to her .
It is not time or opportunity that is to determine intimacy ;-- it is disposition alone .
From that moment she doubted not of their being engaged to each other ; and the belief of it created no other surprise than that she , or any of their friends , should be left by tempers so frank , to discover it by accident .
" If you would but let us know what your business is ," said Mrs . Jennings , " we might see whether it could be put off or not ."
Elinor could hardly believe this to be true , as it seemed very unlikely that Willoughby should propose , or Marianne consent , to enter the house while Mrs . Smith was in it , with whom Marianne had not the smallest acquaintance .
" Why should you imagine , Elinor , that we did not go there , or that we did not see the house ?
I am not sensible of having done anything wrong in walking over Mrs . Smith ' s grounds , or in seeing her house .
The sudden termination of Colonel Brandon ' s visit at the park , with his steadiness in concealing its cause , filled the mind , and raised the wonder of Mrs . Jennings for two or three days ; she was a great wonderer , as every one must be who takes a very lively interest in all the comings and goings of all their acquaintance .
Elinor , though she felt really interested in the welfare of Colonel Brandon , could not bestow all the wonder on his going so suddenly away , which Mrs . Jennings was desirous of her feeling ; for besides that the circumstance did not in her opinion justify such lasting amazement or variety of speculation , her wonder was otherwise disposed of .
His estate had been rated by Sir John at about six or seven hundred a year ; but he lived at an expense to which that income could hardly be equal , and he had himself often complained of his poverty .
But you may be assured that I would not sacrifice one sentiment of local attachment of yours , or of any one whom I loved , for all the improvements in the world .
" Yes ," cried he in the same eager tone , " with all and every thing belonging to it ;-- in no one convenience or INconvenience about it , should the least variation be perceptible .
You will tell me , I know , that this may or may NOT have happened ; but I will listen to no cavil , unless you can point out any other method of understanding the affair as satisfactory at this .
" Then you would have told me , that it might or might not have happened .
And is no allowance to be made for inadvertence , or for spirits depressed by recent disappointment ?
In such a case , a plain and open avowal of his difficulties would have been more to his honour I think , as well as more consistent with his general character ;-- but I will not raise objections against any one ' s conduct on so illiberal a foundation , as a difference in judgment from myself , or a deviation from what I may think right and consistent ."
" Why do you not ask Marianne at once ," said she , " whether she is or she is not engaged to Willoughby ?
His coldness and reserve mortified her severely ; she was vexed and half angry ; but resolving to regulate her behaviour to him by the past rather than the present , she avoided every appearance of resentment or displeasure , and treated him as she thought he ought to be treated from the family connection .
" What have wealth or grandeur to do with happiness ?"
" About eighteen hundred or two thousand a year ; not more than THAT ."
" I love to be reminded of the past , Edward -- whether it be melancholy or gay , I love to recall it -- and you will never offend me by talking of former times .
" And the bulk of your fortune would be laid out in annuities on the authors or their heirs ."
It is not likely that I should now see or hear any thing to change them ."
" I have frequently detected myself in such kind of mistakes ," said Elinor , " in a total misapprehension of character in some point or other : fancying people so much more gay or grave , or ingenious or stupid than they really are , and I can hardly tell why or in what the deception originated .
I am guilty , I confess , of having often wished you to treat our acquaintance in general with greater attention ; but when have I advised you to adopt their sentiments or to conform to their judgment in serious matters ?"
" Shyness is only the effect of a sense of inferiority in some way or other .
I am not fond of nettles or thistles , or heath blossoms .
That the hair was her own , she instantaneously felt as well satisfied as Marianne ; the only difference in their conclusions was , that what Marianne considered as a free gift from her sister , Elinor was conscious must have been procured by some theft or contrivance unknown to herself .
Sir John never came to the Dashwoods without either inviting them to dine at the park the next day , or to drink tea with them that evening .
" I do not doubt it ," replied he , rather astonished at her earnestness and warmth ; for had he not imagined it to be a joke for the good of her acquaintance in general , founded only on a something or a nothing between Mr . Willoughby and herself , he would not have ventured to mention it .
His spirits , during the last two or three days , though still very unequal , were greatly improved -- he grew more and more partial to the house and environs -- never spoke of going away without a sigh -- declared his time to be wholly disengaged -- even doubted to what place he should go when he left them -- but still , go he must .
He had no pleasure at Norland ; he detested being in town ; but either to Norland or London , he must go .
But from such vain wishes she was forced to turn for comfort to the renewal of her confidence in Edward ' s affection , to the remembrance of every mark of regard in look or word which fell from him while at Barton , and above all to that flattering proof of it which he constantly wore round his finger .
It has been , and is , and probably will always be a heavy misfortune to me , that I have had no necessary business to engage me , no profession to give me employment , or afford me any thing like independence .
But remember that the pain of parting from friends will be felt by every body at times , whatever be their education or state .
You want nothing but patience -- or give it a more fascinating name , call it hope .
Without shutting herself up from her family , or leaving the house in determined solitude to avoid them , or lying awake the whole night to indulge meditation , Elinor found every day afforded her leisure enough to think of Edward , and of Edward ' s behaviour , in every possible variety which the different state of her spirits at different times could produce ,-- with tenderness , pity , approbation , censure , and doubt .
Her husband was a grave looking young man of five or six and twenty , with an air of more fashion and sense than his wife , but of less willingness to please or be pleased .
Mrs . Palmer laughed heartily at the recollection of their astonishment , and every body agreed , two or three times over , that it had been quite an agreeable surprise .
" The rent of this cottage is said to be low ; but we have it on very hard terms , if we are to dine at the park whenever any one is staying either with them , or with us ."
It was impossible for any one to be more thoroughly good - natured , or more determined to be happy than Mrs . Palmer .
The studied indifference , insolence , and discontent of her husband gave her no pain ; and when he scolded or abused her , she was highly diverted .
Elinor was not inclined , after a little observation , to give him credit for being so genuinely and unaffectedly ill - natured or ill - bred as he wished to appear .
Somehow or other I never happened to be staying at Barton while he was at Allenham .
As it was impossible , however , now to prevent their coming , Lady Middleton resigned herself to the idea of it , with all the philosophy of a well - bred woman , contenting herself with merely giving her husband a gentle reprimand on the subject five or six times every day .
The young ladies arrived : their appearance was by no means ungenteel or unfashionable .
He could only obtain a promise of their calling at the Park within a day or two , and then left them in amazement at their indifference , to walk home and boast anew of their attractions to the Miss Steeles , as he had been already boasting of the Miss Steeles to them .
When their promised visit to the Park and consequent introduction to these young ladies took place , they found in the appearance of the eldest , who was nearly thirty , with a very plain and not a sensible face , nothing to admire ; but in the other , who was not more than two or three and twenty , they acknowledged considerable beauty ; her features were pretty , and she had a sharp quick eye , and a smartness of air , which though it did not give actual elegance or grace , gave distinction to her person .-- Their manners were particularly civil , and Elinor soon allowed them credit for some kind of sense , when she saw with what constant and judicious attention they were making themselves agreeable to Lady Middleton .
With her children they were in continual raptures , extolling their beauty , courting their notice , and humouring their whims ; and such of their time as could be spared from the importunate demands which this politeness made on it , was spent in admiration of whatever her ladyship was doing , if she happened to be doing any thing , or in taking patterns of some elegant new dress , in which her appearance the day before had thrown them into unceasing delight .
Fortunately for those who pay their court through such foibles , a fond mother , though , in pursuit of praise for her children , the most rapacious of human beings , is likewise the most credulous ; her demands are exorbitant ; but she will swallow any thing ; and the excessive affection and endurance of the Miss Steeles towards her offspring were viewed therefore by Lady Middleton without the smallest surprise or distrust .
In some surprise at the familiarity of this question , or at least of the manner in which it was spoken , Elinor replied that she was .
The vulgar freedom and folly of the eldest left her no recommendation , and as Elinor was not blinded by the beauty , or the shrewd look of the youngest , to her want of real elegance and artlessness , she left the house without any wish of knowing them better .
Not so the Miss Steeles .-- They came from Exeter , well provided with admiration for the use of Sir John Middleton , his family , and all his relations , and no niggardly proportion was now dealt out to his fair cousins , whom they declared to be the most beautiful , elegant , accomplished , and agreeable girls they had ever beheld , and with whom they were particularly anxious to be better acquainted .-- And to be better acquainted therefore , Elinor soon found was their inevitable lot , for as Sir John was entirely on the side of the Miss Steeles , their party would be too strong for opposition , and that kind of intimacy must be submitted to , which consists of sitting an hour or two together in the same room almost every day .
To do him justice , he did every thing in his power to promote their unreserve , by making the Miss Steeles acquainted with whatever he knew or supposed of his cousins ' situations in the most delicate particulars ,-- and Elinor had not seen them more than twice , before the eldest of them wished her joy on her sister ' s having been so lucky as to make a conquest of a very smart beau since she came to Barton .
" Though we have seen him once or twice at my uncle ' s , it is rather too much to pretend to know him very well ."
She wished very much to have the subject continued , though she did not chuse to join in it herself ; but nothing more of it was said , and for the first time in her life , she thought Mrs . Jennings deficient either in curiosity after petty information , or in a disposition to communicate it .
The manner in which Miss Steele had spoken of Edward , increased her curiosity ; for it struck her as being rather ill - natured , and suggested the suspicion of that lady ' s knowing , or fancying herself to know something to his disadvantage .-- But her curiosity was unavailing , for no farther notice was taken of Mr . Ferrars ' s name by Miss Steele when alluded to , or even openly mentioned by Sir John .
Marianne , who had never much toleration for any thing like impertinence , vulgarity , inferiority of parts , or even difference of taste from herself , was at this time particularly ill - disposed , from the state of her spirits , to be pleased with the Miss Steeles , or to encourage their advances ; and to the invariable coldness of her behaviour towards them , which checked every endeavour at intimacy on their side , Elinor principally attributed that preference of herself which soon became evident in the manners of both , but especially of Lucy , who missed no opportunity of engaging her in conversation , or of striving to improve their acquaintance by an easy and frank communication of her sentiments .
She turned towards Lucy in silent amazement , unable to divine the reason or object of such a declaration ; and though her complexion varied , she stood firm in incredulity , and felt in no danger of an hysterical fit , or a swoon .
" You may well be surprised ," continued Lucy ; " for to be sure you could have had no idea of it before ; for I dare say he never dropped the smallest hint of it to you or any of your family ; because it was always meant to be a great secret , and I am sure has been faithfully kept so by me to this hour .
" Certainly ," answered Elinor , without knowing what she said ; but after a moment ' s reflection , she added , with revived security of Edward ' s honour and love , and her companion ' s falsehood --" Engaged to Mr . Edward Ferrars !-- I confess myself so totally surprised at what you tell me , that really -- I beg your pardon ; but surely there must be some mistake of person or name .
Our first care has been to keep the matter secret .-- You knew nothing of me , or my family , and , therefore , there could be no OCCASION for ever mentioning my name to you ; and , as he was always particularly afraid of his sister ' s suspecting any thing , THAT was reason enough for his not mentioning it ."
She put it into her hands as she spoke ; and when Elinor saw the painting , whatever other doubts her fear of a too hasty decision , or her wish of detecting falsehood might suffer to linger in her mind , she could have none of its being Edward ' s face .
" To be sure ," continued Lucy , after a few minutes silence on both sides , " his mother must provide for him sometime or other ; but poor Edward is so cast down by it !
From their counsel , or their conversation , she knew she could receive no assistance , their tenderness and sorrow must add to her distress , while her self - command would neither receive encouragement from their example nor from their praise .
But it was not immediately that an opportunity of doing so could be commanded , though Lucy was as well disposed as herself to take advantage of any that occurred ; for the weather was not often fine enough to allow of their joining in a walk , where they might most easily separate themselves from the others ; and though they met at least every other evening either at the park or cottage , and chiefly at the former , they could not be supposed to meet for the sake of conversation .
Such a thought would never enter either Sir John or Lady Middleton ' s head ; and therefore very little leisure was ever given for a general chat , and none at all for particular discourse .
They met for the sake of eating , drinking , and laughing together , playing at cards , or consequences , or any other game that was sufficiently noisy .
One or two meetings of this kind had taken place , without affording Elinor any chance of engaging Lucy in private , when Sir John called at the cottage one morning , to beg , in the name of charity , that they would all dine with Lady Middleton that day , as he was obliged to attend the club at Exeter , and she would otherwise be quite alone , except her mother and the two Miss Steeles .
The insipidity of the meeting was exactly such as Elinor had expected ; it produced not one novelty of thought or expression , and nothing could be less interesting than the whole of their discourse both in the dining parlour and drawing room : to the latter , the children accompanied them , and while they remained there , she was too well convinced of the impossibility of engaging Lucy ' s attention to attempt it .
This hint was enough , Lucy recollected herself instantly and replied , " Indeed you are very much mistaken , Lady Middleton ; I am only waiting to know whether you can make your party without me , or I should have been at my filigree already .
" You are very kind ," said Lady Middleton to Elinor ; " and as you really like the work , perhaps you will be as well pleased not to cut in till another rubber , or will you take your chance now ?"
" I should be undeserving of the confidence you have honoured me with , if I felt no desire for its continuance , or no farther curiosity on its subject .
" Thank you ," cried Lucy warmly , " for breaking the ice ; you have set my heart at ease by it ; for I was somehow or other afraid I had offended you by what I told you that Monday ."
Elinor hardly knew whether to smile or sigh at this assertion .
" I am rather of a jealous temper too by nature , and from our different situations in life , from his being so much more in the world than me , and our continual separation , I was enough inclined for suspicion , to have found out the truth in an instant , if there had been the slightest alteration in his behaviour to me when we met , or any lowness of spirits that I could not account for , or if he had talked more of one lady than another , or seemed in any respect less happy at Longstaple than he used to be .
I do not mean to say that I am particularly observant or quick - sighted in general , but in such a case I am sure I could not be deceived ."
" And for your own sake too , or you are carrying your disinterestedness beyond reason ."
" Nay ," cried Mrs . Jennings , " I am sure I shall be monstrous glad of Miss Marianne ' s company , whether Miss Dashwood will go or not , only the more the merrier say I , and I thought it would be more comfortable for them to be together ; because , if they got tired of me , they might talk to one another , and laugh at my old ways behind my back .
But one or the other , if not both of them , I must have .
And in all probability you will see your brother , and whatever may be his faults , or the faults of his wife , when I consider whose son he is , I cannot bear to have you so wholly estranged from each other ."
" My objection is this ; though I think very well of Mrs . Jennings ' s heart , she is not a woman whose society can afford us pleasure , or whose protection will give us consequence ."
Elinor could not help smiling at this display of indifference towards the manners of a person , to whom she had often had difficulty in persuading Marianne to behave with tolerable politeness ; and resolved within herself , that if her sister persisted in going , she would go likewise , as she did not think it proper that Marianne should be left to the sole guidance of her own judgment , or that Mrs . Jennings should be abandoned to the mercy of Marianne for all the comfort of her domestic hours .
Elinor had often wished for an opportunity of attempting to weaken her mother ' s dependence on the attachment of Edward and herself , that the shock might be less when the whole truth were revealed , and now on this attack , though almost hopeless of success , she forced herself to begin her design by saying , as calmly as she could , " I like Edward Ferrars very much , and shall always be glad to see him ; but as to the rest of the family , it is a matter of perfect indifference to me , whether I am ever known to them or not ."
With regard to herself , it was now a matter of unconcern whether she went to town or not , and when she saw her mother so thoroughly pleased with the plan , and her sister exhilarated by it in look , voice , and manner , restored to all her usual animation , and elevated to more than her usual gaiety , she could not be dissatisfied with the cause , and would hardly allow herself to distrust the consequence .
But these objections had all , with that happy ardour of youth which Marianne and her mother equally shared , been overcome or overlooked ; and Elinor , in spite of every occasional doubt of Willoughby ' s constancy , could not witness the rapture of delightful expectation which filled the whole soul and beamed in the eyes of Marianne , without feeling how blank was her own prospect , how cheerless her own state of mind in the comparison , and how gladly she would engage in the solicitude of Marianne ' s situation to have the same animating object in view , the same possibility of hope .
Marianne ' s eagerness to be gone declared her dependence on finding him there ; and Elinor was resolved not only upon gaining every new light as to his character which her own observation or the intelligence of others could give her , but likewise upon watching his behaviour to her sister with such zealous attention , as to ascertain what he was and what he meant , before many meetings had taken place .
To atone for this conduct therefore , Elinor took immediate possession of the post of civility which she had assigned herself , behaved with the greatest attention to Mrs . Jennings , talked with her , laughed with her , and listened to her whenever she could ; and Mrs . Jennings on her side treated them both with all possible kindness , was solicitous on every occasion for their ease and enjoyment , and only disturbed that she could not make them choose their own dinners at the inn , nor extort a confession of their preferring salmon to cod , or boiled fowls to veal cutlets .
" I am writing home , Marianne ," said Elinor ; " had not you better defer your letter for a day or two ?"
" Yes ," he replied , with some embarrassment , " almost ever since ; I have been once or twice at Delaford for a few days , but it has never been in my power to return to Barton ."
They had not long finished their breakfast before Mrs . Palmer ' s barouche stopped at the door , and in a few minutes she came laughing into the room : so delighted to see them all , that it was hard to say whether she received most pleasure from meeting her mother or the Miss Dashwoods again .
After an hour or two spent in what her mother called comfortable chat , or in other words , in every variety of inquiry concerning all their acquaintance on Mrs . Jennings ' s side , and in laughter without cause on Mrs . Palmer ' s , it was proposed by the latter that they should all accompany her to some shops where she had business that morning , to which Mrs . Jennings and Elinor readily consented , as having likewise some purchases to make themselves ; and Marianne , though declining it at first was induced to go likewise .
Restless and dissatisfied every where , her sister could never obtain her opinion of any article of purchase , however it might equally concern them both : she received no pleasure from anything ; was only impatient to be at home again , and could with difficulty govern her vexation at the tediousness of Mrs . Palmer , whose eye was caught by every thing pretty , expensive , or new ; who was wild to buy all , could determine on none , and dawdled away her time in rapture and indecision .
" Are you certain that no servant , no porter has left any letter or note ?"
In another day or two perhaps ; this extreme mildness can hardly last longer -- nay , perhaps it may freeze tonight !"
Pleased to find herself more comfortably situated in that particular than she had expected , Elinor was very willing to compound for the want of much real enjoyment from any of their evening parties , which , whether at home or abroad , formed only for cards , could have little to amuse her .
In the country , an unpremeditated dance was very allowable ; but in London , where the reputation of elegance was more important and less easily attained , it was risking too much for the gratification of a few girls , to have it known that Lady Middleton had given a small dance of eight or nine couple , with two violins , and a mere side - board collation .
Marianne gave one glance round the apartment as she entered : it was enough -- HE was not there -- and she sat down , equally ill - disposed to receive or communicate pleasure .
About the middle of the day , Mrs . Jennings went out by herself on business , and Elinor began her letter directly , while Marianne , too restless for employment , too anxious for conversation , walked from one window to the other , or sat down by the fire in melancholy meditation .
It was not the first time of her feeling the same kind of conviction ; for , more than once before , beginning with the observation of " your sister looks unwell to - day ," or " your sister seems out of spirits ," he had appeared on the point , either of disclosing , or of inquiring , something particular about her .
Yet as she was convinced that Marianne ' s affection for Willoughby , could leave no hope of Colonel Brandon ' s success , whatever the event of that affection might be , and at the same time wished to shield her conduct from censure , she thought it most prudent and kind , after some consideration , to say more than she really knew or believed .
Nothing occurred during the next three or four days , to make Elinor regret what she had done , in applying to her mother ; for Willoughby neither came nor wrote .
They were engaged about the end of that time to attend Lady Middleton to a party , from which Mrs . Jennings was kept away by the indisposition of her youngest daughter ; and for this party , Marianne , wholly dispirited , careless of her appearance , and seeming equally indifferent whether she went or staid , prepared , without one look of hope or one expression of pleasure .
She sat by the drawing - room fire after tea , till the moment of Lady Middleton ' s arrival , without once stirring from her seat , or altering her attitude , lost in her own thoughts , and insensible of her sister ' s presence ; and when at last they were told that Lady Middleton waited for them at the door , she started as if she had forgotten that any one was expected .
After some time spent in saying little or doing less , Lady Middleton sat down to Cassino , and as Marianne was not in spirits for moving about , she and Elinor luckily succeeding to chairs , placed themselves at no great distance from the table .
She soon caught his eye , and he immediately bowed , but without attempting to speak to her , or to approach Marianne , though he could not but see her ; and then continued his discourse with the same lady .
Tell him I must see him again -- must speak to him instantly .-- I cannot rest -- I shall not have a moment ' s peace till this is explained -- some dreadful misapprehension or other .-- Oh go to him this moment ."
That some kind of engagement had subsisted between Willoughby and Marianne she could not doubt , and that Willoughby was weary of it , seemed equally clear ; for however Marianne might still feed her own wishes , SHE could not attribute such behaviour to mistake or misapprehension of any kind .
Before the house - maid had lit their fire the next day , or the sun gained any power over a cold , gloomy morning in January , Marianne , only half dressed , was kneeling against one of the window - seats for the sake of all the little light she could command from it , and writing as fast as a continual flow of tears would permit her .
Mrs . Jennings laughed again , but Elinor had not spirits to say more , and eager at all events to know what Willoughby had written , hurried away to their room , where , on opening the door , she saw Marianne stretched on the bed , almost choked by grief , one letter in her hand , and two or three others laying by her .
I shall never reflect on my former acquaintance with your family in Devonshire without the most grateful pleasure , and flatter myself it will not be broken by any mistake or misapprehension of my actions .
My esteem for your whole family is very sincere ; but if I have been so unfortunate as to give rise to a belief of more than I felt , or meant to express , I shall reproach myself for not having been more guarded in my professions of that esteem .
You have perhaps been misinformed , or purposely deceived , in something concerning me , which may have lowered me in your opinion .
For a moment or two she could say no more ; but when this emotion had passed away , she added , in a firmer tone ,
This woman of whom he writes -- whoever she be -- or any one , in short , but your own dear self , mama , and Edward , may have been so barbarous to bely me .
Elinor , Elinor , they who suffer little may be proud and independent as they like -- may resist insult , or return mortification -- but I cannot .
Elinor was employed in walking thoughtfully from the fire to the window , from the window to the fire , without knowing that she received warmth from one , or discerning objects through the other ; and Marianne , seated at the foot of the bed , with her head leaning against one of its posts , again took up Willoughby ' s letter , and , after shuddering over every sentence , exclaimed --
" Well then , another day or two , perhaps ; but I cannot stay here long , I cannot stay to endure the questions and remarks of all these people .
Had she tried to speak , or had she been conscious of half Mrs . Jennings ' s well - meant but ill - judged attentions to her , this calmness could not have been maintained ; but not a syllable escaped her lips ; and the abstraction of her thoughts preserved her in ignorance of every thing that was passing before her .
Elinor , who did justice to Mrs . Jennings ' s kindness , though its effusions were often distressing , and sometimes almost ridiculous , made her those acknowledgments , and returned her those civilities , which her sister could not make or return for herself .
no wonder she has been looking so bad and so cast down this last week or two , for this matter I suppose has been hanging over her head as long as that .
" It would be unnecessary I am sure , for you to caution Mrs . Palmer and Sir John against ever naming Mr . Willoughby , or making the slightest allusion to what has passed , before my sister .
Two thousand a year without debt or drawback -- except the little love - child , indeed ; aye , I had forgot her ; but she may be ' prenticed out at a small cost , and then what does it signify ?
" Ay , if we can do THAT , Ma ' am ," said Elinor , " we shall do very well with or without Colonel Brandon ."
Elinor , unable herself to determine whether it were better for Marianne to be in London or at Barton , offered no counsel of her own except of patience till their mother ' s wishes could be known ; and at length she obtained her sister ' s consent to wait for that knowledge .
The treachery , or the folly , of my cousin ' s maid betrayed us .
I had depended on her fortitude too far , and the blow was a severe one -- but had her marriage been happy , so young as I then was , a few months must have reconciled me to it , or at least I should not have now to lament it .
But can we wonder that , with such a husband to provoke inconstancy , and without a friend to advise or restrain her ( for my father lived only a few months after their marriage , and I was with my regiment in the East Indies ) she should fall ?
Their fates , their fortunes , cannot be the same ; and had the natural sweet disposition of the one been guarded by a firmer mind , or a happier marriage , she might have been all that you will live to see the other be .
It is now three years ago ( she had just reached her fourteenth year ,) that I removed her from school , to place her under the care of a very respectable woman , residing in Dorsetshire , who had the charge of four or five other girls of about the same time of life ; and for two years I had every reason to be pleased with her situation .
Would he have been less gay or less happy in the smiles of your sister ?
To give the feelings or the language of Mrs . Dashwood on receiving and answering Elinor ' s letter would be only to give a repetition of what her daughters had already felt and said ; of a disappointment hardly less painful than Marianne ' s , and an indignation even greater than Elinor ' s .
She recommended it to her daughters , therefore , by all means not to shorten their visit to Mrs . Jennings ; the length of which , though never exactly fixed , had been expected by all to comprise at least five or six weeks .
It was a great comfort to her to be sure of exciting no interest in ONE person at least among their circle of friends : a great comfort to know that there was ONE who would meet her without feeling any curiosity after particulars , or any anxiety for her sister ' s health .
Lady Middleton expressed her sense of the affair about once every day , or twice , if the subject occurred very often , by saying , " It is very shocking , indeed !"
His chief reward for the painful exertion of disclosing past sorrows and present humiliations , was given in the pitying eye with which Marianne sometimes observed him , and the gentleness of her voice whenever ( though it did not often happen ) she was obliged , or could oblige herself to speak to him .
Dr . Davies was coming to town , and so we thought we ' d join him in a post - chaise ; and he behaved very genteelly , and paid ten or twelve shillings more than we did ."
My sister will be equally sorry to miss the pleasure of seeing you ; but she has been very much plagued lately with nervous head - aches , which make her unfit for company or conversation ."
Her sister was perhaps laid down upon the bed , or in her dressing gown , and therefore not able to come to them .
He was giving orders for a toothpick - case for himself , and till its size , shape , and ornaments were determined , all of which , after examining and debating for a quarter of an hour over every toothpick - case in the shop , were finally arranged by his own inventive fancy , he had no leisure to bestow any other attention on the two ladies , than what was comprised in three or four very broad stares ; a kind of notice which served to imprint on Elinor the remembrance of a person and face , of strong , natural , sterling insignificance , though adorned in the first style of fashion .
Mrs . Jennings , however , assured him directly , that she should not stand upon ceremony , for they were all cousins , or something like it , and she should certainly wait on Mrs . John Dashwood very soon , and bring her sisters to see her .
" Another year or two may do much towards it ," he gravely replied ; " but however there is still a great deal to be done .
I question whether Marianne NOW , will marry a man worth more than five or six hundred a - year , at the utmost , and I am very much deceived if YOU do not do better .
He had just compunction enough for having done nothing for his sisters himself , to be exceedingly anxious that everybody else should do a great deal ; and an offer from Colonel Brandon , or a legacy from Mrs . Jennings , was the easiest means of atoning for his own neglect .
Elinor wanted very much to know , though she did not chuse to ask , whether Edward was then in town ; but nothing would have induced Fanny voluntarily to mention his name before her , till able to tell her that his marriage with Miss Morton was resolved on , or till her husband ' s expectations on Colonel Brandon were answered ; because she believed them still so very much attached to each other , that they could not be too sedulously divided in word and deed on every occasion .
So well had they recommended themselves to Lady Middleton , so agreeable had their assiduities made them to her , that though Lucy was certainly not so elegant , and her sister not even genteel , she was as ready as Sir John to ask them to spend a week or two in Conduit Street ; and it happened to be particularly convenient to the Miss Steeles , as soon as the Dashwoods ' invitation was known , that their visit should begin a few days before the party took place .
But there was no peculiar disgrace in this ; for it was very much the case with the chief of their visitors , who almost all laboured under one or other of these disqualifications for being agreeable -- Want of sense , either natural or improved -- want of elegance -- want of spirits -- or want of temper .
" This is admiration of a very particular kind !-- what is Miss Morton to us ?-- who knows , or who cares , for her ?-- it is Elinor of whom WE think and speak ."
Elinor ' s curiosity to see Mrs . Ferrars was satisfied .-- She had found in her every thing that could tend to make a farther connection between the families undesirable .-- She had seen enough of her pride , her meanness , and her determined prejudice against herself , to comprehend all the difficulties that must have perplexed the engagement , and retarded the marriage , of Edward and herself , had he been otherwise free ;-- and she had seen almost enough to be thankful for her OWN sake , that one greater obstacle preserved her from suffering under any other of Mrs . Ferrars ' s creation , preserved her from all dependence upon her caprice , or any solicitude for her good opinion .
She wondered that Lucy ' s spirits could be so very much elevated by the civility of Mrs . Ferrars ;-- that her interest and her vanity should so very much blind her as to make the attention which seemed only paid her because she was NOT ELINOR , appear a compliment to herself -- or to allow her to derive encouragement from a preference only given her , because her real situation was unknown .
Again they all sat down , and for a moment or two all were silent ; while Marianne was looking with the most speaking tenderness , sometimes at Edward and sometimes at Elinor , regretting only that their delight in each other should be checked by Lucy ' s unwelcome presence .
This remark was not calculated to make Edward or Elinor more easy , nor to conciliate the good will of Lucy , who looked up at Marianne with no very benignant expression .
In a week or two , I suppose , we shall be going ; and , I trust , Edward will not be very unwilling to accept the charge ."
And I really believe he HAS the most delicate conscience in the world ; the most scrupulous in performing every engagement , however minute , and however it may make against his interest or pleasure .
All that she could hope , was that Edward would not often expose her or himself to the distress of hearing Marianne ' s mistaken warmth , nor to the repetition of any other part of the pain that had attended their recent meeting -- and this she had every reason to expect .
But this conciliation was not granted ; for though she often threw out expressions of pity for her sister to Elinor , and more than once dropt a reflection on the inconstancy of beaux before Marianne , no effect was produced , but a look of indifference from the former , or of disgust in the latter .
In the present instance , this last - arrived lady allowed her fancy to so far outrun truth and probability , that on merely hearing the name of the Miss Dashwoods , and understanding them to be Mr . Dashwood ' s sisters , she immediately concluded them to be staying in Harley Street ; and this misconstruction produced within a day or two afterwards , cards of invitation for them as well as for their brother and sister , to a small musical party at her house .
Marianne had now been brought by degrees , so much into the habit of going out every day , that it was become a matter of indifference to her , whether she went or not : and she prepared quietly and mechanically for every evening ' s engagement , though without expecting the smallest amusement from any , and very often without knowing , till the last moment , where it was to take her .
With such encouragement as this , was she dismissed on the present occasion , to her brother ' s carriage ; which they were ready to enter five minutes after it stopped at the door , a punctuality not very agreeable to their sister - in - law , who had preceded them to the house of her acquaintance , and was there hoping for some delay on their part that might inconvenience either herself or her coachman .
Mrs . Palmer was so well at the end of a fortnight , that her mother felt it no longer necessary to give up the whole of her time to her ; and , contenting herself with visiting her once or twice a day , returned from that period to her own home , and her own habits , in which she found the Miss Dashwoods very ready to resume their former share .
About the third or fourth morning after their being thus resettled in Berkeley Street , Mrs . Jennings , on returning from her ordinary visit to Mrs . Palmer , entered the drawing - room , where Elinor was sitting by herself , with an air of such hurrying importance as prepared her to hear something wonderful ; and giving her time only to form that idea , began directly to justify it , by saying ,
So upon that , he smirked , and simpered , and looked grave , and seemed to know something or other , and at last he said in a whisper , ' For fear any unpleasant report should reach the young ladies under your care as to their sister ' s indisposition , I think it advisable to say , that I believe there is no great reason for alarm ; I hope Mrs . Dashwood will do very well .'"
Mr . Edward Ferrars , the very young man I used to joke with you about ( but however , as it turns out , I am monstrous glad there was never any thing in it ), Mr . Edward Ferrars , it seems , has been engaged above this twelvemonth to my cousin Lucy !-- There ' s for you , my dear !-- And not a creature knowing a syllable of the matter , except Nancy !-- Could you have believed such a thing possible ?-- There is no great wonder in their liking one another ; but that matters should be brought so forward between them , and nobody suspect it !-- THAT is strange !-- I never happened to see them together , or I am sure I should have found it out directly .
Well , and so this was kept a great secret , for fear of Mrs . Ferrars , and neither she nor your brother or sister suspected a word of the matter ;-- till this very morning , poor Nancy , who , you know , is a well - meaning creature , but no conjurer , popt it all out .
thinks she to herself , ' they are all so fond of Lucy , to be sure they will make no difficulty about it ;' and so , away she went to your sister , who was sitting all alone at her carpet - work , little suspecting what was to come -- for she had just been saying to your brother , only five minutes before , that she thought to make a match between Edward and some Lord ' s daughter or other , I forget who .
how snug they might live in such another cottage as yours -- or a little bigger -- with two maids , and two men ; and I believe I could help them to a housemaid , for my Betty has a sister out of place , that would fit them exactly ."
No time was to be lost in undeceiving her , in making her acquainted with the real truth , and in endeavouring to bring her to hear it talked of by others , without betraying that she felt any uneasiness for her sister , or any resentment against Edward .
She was very far from wishing to dwell on her own feelings , or to represent herself as suffering much , any otherwise than as the self - command she had practised since her first knowledge of Edward ' s engagement , might suggest a hint of what was practicable to Marianne .
" I have very often wished to undeceive yourself and my mother ," added Elinor ; " and once or twice I have attempted it ;-- but without betraying my trust , I never could have convinced you ."
He left her house yesterday , but where he is gone , or whether he is still in town , I do not know ; for WE of course can make no inquiry ."
Nothing new was heard by them , for a day or two afterwards , of affairs in Harley Street , or Bartlett ' s Buildings .
She saw nothing of the Willoughbys , nothing of Edward , and for some time nothing of anybody who could by any chance whether grave or gay , be interesting to her .
And how he had been so worried by what passed , that as soon as he had went away from his mother ' s house , he had got upon his horse , and rid into the country , some where or other ; and how he had stayed about at an inn all Thursday and Friday , on purpose to get the better of it .
I will take my oath he never dropt a syllable of being tired of her , or of wishing to marry Miss Morton , or any thing like it .
one can ' t repeat such kind of things you know )-- she told him directly , she had not the least mind in the world to be off , for she could live with him upon a trifle , and how little so ever he might have , she should be very glad to have it all , you know , or something of the kind .
And I am sure Lucy would have done just the same by me ; for a year or two back , when Martha Sharpe and I had so many secrets together , she never made any bones of hiding in a closet , or behind a chimney - board , on purpose to hear what we said ."
And for my part , I was all in a fright for fear your sister should ask us for the huswifes she had gave us a day or two before ; but , however , nothing was said about them , and I took care to keep mine out of sight .
I am sure you will be glad to hear , as likewise dear Mrs . Jennings , I spent two happy hours with him yesterday afternoon , he would not hear of our parting , though earnestly did I , as I thought my duty required , urge him to it for prudence sake , and would have parted for ever on the spot , would he consent to it ; but he said it should never be , he did not regard his mother ' s anger , while he could have my affections ; our prospects are not very bright , to be sure , but we must wait , and hope for the best ; he will be ordained shortly ; and should it ever be in your power to recommend him to any body that has a living to bestow , am very sure you will not forget us , and dear Mrs . Jennings too , trust she will speak a good word for us to Sir John , or Mr . Palmer , or any friend that may be able to assist us .-- Poor Anne was much to blame for what she did , but she did it for the best , so I say nothing ; hope Mrs . Jennings won ' t think it too much trouble to give us a call , should she come this way any morning , ' twould be a great kindness , and my cousins would be proud to know her .-- My paper reminds me to conclude ; and begging to be most gratefully and respectfully remembered to her , and to Sir John , and Lady Middleton , and the dear children , when you chance to see them , and love to Miss Marianne ,
This delay on the Colonel ' s side , however , did not seem to offend or mortify his fair companion in the least , for on their breaking up the conference soon afterwards , and moving different ways , Mrs . Jennings very plainly heard Elinor say , and with a voice which shewed her to feel what she said ,
" The cruelty , the impolitic cruelty ,"-- he replied , with great feeling ,--" of dividing , or attempting to divide , two young people long attached to each other , is terrible .-- Mrs . Ferrars does not know what she may be doing -- what she may drive her son to .
I have seen Mr . Ferrars two or three times in Harley Street , and am much pleased with him .
as to that , when a man has once made up his mind to such a thing , somehow or other he will soon find an opportunity .
The particular circumstances between them made a difficulty of that which to any other person would have been the easiest thing in the world ; but she equally feared to say too much or too little , and sat deliberating over her paper , with the pen in her band , till broken in on by the entrance of Edward himself .
" Mrs . Jennings told me ," said he , " that you wished to speak with me , at least I understood her so -- or I certainly should not have intruded on you in such a manner ; though at the same time , I should have been extremely sorry to leave London without seeing you and your sister ; especially as it will most likely be some time -- it is not probable that I should soon have the pleasure of meeting you again .
" Really ," said Elinor , " I know so little of these kind of forms , that I can hardly even conjecture as to the time , or the preparation necessary ; but I suppose two or three months will complete his ordination ."
" Two or three months !"
my dear , how calmly you talk of it ; and can the Colonel wait two or three months !
Lord bless me !-- I am sure it would put ME quite out of patience !-- And though one would be very glad to do a kindness by poor Mr . Ferrars , I do think it is not worth while to wait two or three months for him .
So far was she , at the same time , from any backwardness to give Elinor that credit which Edward WOULD give her , that she spoke of her friendship for them both with the most grateful warmth , was ready to own all their obligation to her , and openly declared that no exertion for their good on Miss Dashwood ' s part , either present or future , would ever surprise her , for she believed her capable of doing any thing in the world for those she really valued .
Surely , after doing so , she cannot be imagined liable to any impression of sorrow or of joy on his account -- she cannot be interested in any thing that befalls him .-- She would not be so weak as to throw away the comfort of a child , and yet retain the anxiety of a parent !"
" I only mean that I suppose , from your manner of speaking , it must be the same to Miss Morton whether she marry Edward or Robert ."
I have good reason to think -- indeed I have it from the best authority , or I should not repeat it , for otherwise it would be very wrong to say any thing about it -- but I have it from the very best authority -- not that I ever precisely heard Mrs . Ferrars say it herself -- but her daughter DID , and I have it from her -- That in short , whatever objections there might be against a certain -- a certain connection -- you understand me -- it would have been far preferable to her , it would not have given her half the vexation that THIS does .
But however , all that is quite out of the question -- not to be thought of or mentioned -- as to any attachment you know -- it never could be -- all that is gone by .
There is no doubt of your doing exceedingly well -- quite as well , or better , perhaps , all things considered .
The merest awkward country girl , without style , or elegance , and almost without beauty .-- I remember her perfectly .
One other short call in Harley Street , in which Elinor received her brother ' s congratulations on their travelling so far towards Barton without any expense , and on Colonel Brandon ' s being to follow them to Cleveland in a day or two , completed the intercourse of the brother and sisters in town ;-- and a faint invitation from Fanny , to come to Norland whenever it should happen to be in their way , which of all things was the most unlikely to occur , with a more warm , though less public , assurance , from John to Elinor , of the promptitude with which he should come to see her at Delaford , was all that foretold any meeting in the country .
It amused her to observe that all her friends seemed determined to send her to Delaford ;-- a place , in which , of all others , she would now least chuse to visit , or wish to reside ; for not only was it considered as her future home by her brother and Mrs . Jennings , but even Lucy , when they parted , gave her a pressing invitation to visit her there .
The second day brought them into the cherished , or the prohibited , county of Somerset , for as such was it dwelt on by turns in Marianne ' s imagination ; and in the forenoon of the third they drove up to Cleveland .
She returned just in time to join the others as they quitted the house , on an excursion through its more immediate premises ; and the rest of the morning was easily whiled away , in lounging round the kitchen garden , examining the bloom upon its walls , and listening to the gardener ' s lamentations upon blights , in dawdling through the green - house , where the loss of her favourite plants , unwarily exposed , and nipped by the lingering frost , raised the laughter of Charlotte ,-- and in visiting her poultry - yard , where , in the disappointed hopes of her dairy - maid , by hens forsaking their nests , or being stolen by a fox , or in the rapid decrease of a promising young brood , she found fresh sources of merriment .
She had depended on a twilight walk to the Grecian temple , and perhaps all over the grounds , and an evening merely cold or damp would not have deterred her from it ; but a heavy and settled rain even SHE could not fancy dry or pleasant weather for walking .
Of Edward , or at least of some of his concerns , she now received intelligence from Colonel Brandon , who had been into Dorsetshire lately ; and who , treating her at once as the disinterested friend of Mr . Ferrars , and the kind of confidant of himself , talked to her a great deal of the parsonage at Delaford , described its deficiencies , and told her what he meant to do himself towards removing them .-- His behaviour to her in this , as well as in every other particular , his open pleasure in meeting her after an absence of only ten days , his readiness to converse with her , and his deference for her opinion , might very well justify Mrs . Jennings ' s persuasion of his attachment , and would have been enough , perhaps , had not Elinor still , as from the first , believed Marianne his real favourite , to make her suspect it herself .
Two delighful twilight walks on the third and fourth evenings of her being there , not merely on the dry gravel of the shrubbery , but all over the grounds , and especially in the most distant parts of them , where there was something more of wildness than in the rest , where the trees were the oldest , and the grass was the longest and wettest , had -- assisted by the still greater imprudence of sitting in her wet shoes and stockings -- given Marianne a cold so violent as , though for a day or two trifled with or denied , would force itself by increasing ailments on the concern of every body , and the notice of herself .
Though heavy and feverish , with a pain in her limbs , and a cough , and a sore throat , a good night ' s rest was to cure her entirely ; and it was with difficulty that Elinor prevailed on her , when she went to bed , to try one or two of the simplest of the remedies .
But a day spent in sitting shivering over the fire with a book in her hand , which she was unable to read , or in lying , weary and languid , on a sofa , did not speak much in favour of her amendment ; and when , at last , she went early to bed , more and more indisposed , Colonel Brandon was only astonished at her sister ' s composure , who , though attending and nursing her the whole day , against Marianne inclination , and forcing proper medicines on her at night , trusted , like Marianne , to the certainty and efficacy of sleep , and felt no real alarm .
Her departure , therefore , was fixed on ; and within an hour after Mr . Harris ' s arrival , she set off , with her little boy and his nurse , for the house of a near relation of Mr . Palmer ' s , who lived a few miles on the other side of Bath ; whither her husband promised , at her earnest entreaty , to join her in a day or two ; and whither she was almost equally urgent with her mother to accompany her .
The next day produced little or no alteration in the state of the patient ; she certainly was not better , and , except that there was no amendment , did not appear worse .
Their party was now farther reduced ; for Mr . Palmer , though very unwilling to go as well from real humanity and good - nature , as from a dislike of appearing to be frightened away by his wife , was persuaded at last by Colonel Brandon to perform his promise of following her ; and while he was preparing to go , Colonel Brandon himself , with a much greater exertion , began to talk of going likewise .-- Here , however , the kindness of Mrs . Jennings interposed most acceptably ; for to send the Colonel away while his love was in so much uneasiness on her sister ' s account , would be to deprive them both , she thought , of every comfort ; and therefore telling him at once that his stay at Cleveland was necessary to herself , that she should want him to play at piquet of an evening , while Miss Dashwood was above with her sister , & c . she urged him so strongly to remain , that he , who was gratifying the first wish of his own heart by a compliance , could not long even affect to demur ; especially as Mrs . Jennings ' s entreaty was warmly seconded by Mr . Palmer , who seemed to feel a relief to himself , in leaving behind him a person so well able to assist or advise Miss Dashwood in any emergence .
The comfort of such a friend at that moment as Colonel Brandon -- or such a companion for her mother ,-- how gratefully was it felt !-- a companion whose judgment would guide , whose attendance must relieve , and whose friendship might soothe her !-- as far as the shock of such a summons COULD be lessened to her , his presence , his manners , his assistance , would lessen it .
Marianne ' s ideas were still , at intervals , fixed incoherently on her mother , and whenever she mentioned her name , it gave a pang to the heart of poor Elinor , who , reproaching herself for having trifled with so many days of illness , and wretched for some immediate relief , fancied that all relief might soon be in vain , that every thing had been delayed too long , and pictured to herself her suffering mother arriving too late to see this darling child , or to see her rational .
She was on the point of sending again for Mr . Harris , or if HE could not come , for some other advice , when the former -- but not till after five o ' clock -- arrived .
He promised to call again in the course of three or four hours , and left both the patient and her anxious attendant more composed than he had found them .
At ten o ' clock , she trusted , or at least not much later her mother would be relieved from the dreadful suspense in which she must now be travelling towards them .
" For God ' s sake tell me , is she out of danger , or is she not ?"
" Had I known as much half an hour ago -- But since I AM here ,"-- speaking with a forced vivacity as he returned to his seat --" what does it signify ?-- For once , Miss Dashwood -- it will be the last time , perhaps -- let us be cheerful together .-- I am in a fine mood for gaiety .-- Tell me honestly "-- a deeper glow overspreading his cheeks -- " do you think me most a knave or a fool ?"
" I do not know ," said he , after a pause of expectation on her side , and thoughtfulness on his own ,--" how YOU may have accounted for my behaviour to your sister , or what diabolical motive you may have imputed to me .-- Perhaps you will hardly think the better of me ,-- it is worth the trial however , and you shall hear every thing .
" It is hardly worth while , Mr . Willoughby , for you to relate , or for me to listen any longer .
Every year since my coming of age , or even before , I believe , had added to my debts ; and though the death of my old cousin , Mrs . Smith , was to set me free ; yet that event being uncertain , and possibly far distant , it had been for some time my intention to re - establish my circumstances by marrying a woman of fortune .
But have I ever known it ?-- Well may it be doubted ; for , had I really loved , could I have sacrificed my feelings to vanity , to avarice ?-- or , what is more , could I have sacrificed hers ?-- But I have done it .
Smith had somehow or other been informed , I imagine by some distant relation , whose interest it was to deprive me of her favour , of an affair , a connection -- but I need not explain myself farther ," he added , looking at her with an heightened colour and an enquiring eye --" your particular intimacy -- you have probably heard the whole story long ago ."
My affection for Marianne , my thorough conviction of her attachment to me -- it was all insufficient to outweigh that dread of poverty , or get the better of those false ideas of the necessity of riches , which I was naturally inclined to feel , and expensive society had increased .
But whether I should write this apology , or deliver it in person , was a point of long debate .
I could not bear to leave the country in a manner that might lead you , or the rest of the neighbourhood , to suspect any part of what had really passed between Mrs . Smith and myself -- and I resolved therefore on calling at the cottage , in my way to Honiton .
Lodging as I did in Bond Street , there was hardly a day in which I did not catch a glimpse of one or other of you ; and nothing but the most constant watchfulness on my side , a most invariably prevailing desire to keep out of your sight , could have separated us so long .
With my head and heart full of your sister , I was forced to play the happy lover to another woman !-- Those three or four weeks were worse than all .
My business was to declare myself a scoundrel , and whether I did it with a bow or a bluster was of little importance .-- ' I am ruined for ever in their opinion --' said I to myself --' I am shut out for ever from their society , they already think me an unprincipled fellow , this letter will only make them think me a blackguard one .'
Her three notes -- unluckily they were all in my pocketbook , or I should have denied their existence , and hoarded them for ever -- I was forced to put them up , and could not even kiss them .
" You are very wrong , Mr . Willoughby , very blamable ," said Elinor , while her voice , in spite of herself , betrayed her compassionate emotion ; " you ought not to speak in this way , either of Mrs . Willoughby or my sister .
She must be attached to you , or she would not have married you .
" Do not talk to me of my wife ," said he with a heavy sigh .-- " She does not deserve your compassion .-- She knew I had no regard for her when we married .-- Well , married we were , and came down to Combe Magna to be happy , and afterwards returned to town to be gay .-- And now do you pity me , Miss Dashwood ?-- or have I said all this to no purpose ?-- Am I -- be it only one degree -- am I less guilty in your opinion than I was before ?-- My intentions were not always wrong .
" Last night , in Drury Lane lobby , I ran against Sir John Middleton , and when he saw who I was -- for the first time these two months -- he spoke to me .-- That he had cut me ever since my marriage , I had seen without surprise or resentment .
Vanity , while seeking its own guilty triumph at the expense of another , had involved him in a real attachment , which extravagance , or at least its offspring , necessity , had required to be sacrificed .
I have business there ; from thence to town in a day or two .
" You are never like me , dear Elinor , or I should wonder at your composure now .
Elinor was half inclined to ask her reason for thinking so , because satisfied that none founded on an impartial consideration of their age , characters , or feelings , could be given ;-- but her mother must always be carried away by her imagination on any interesting subject , and therefore instead of an inquiry , she passed it off with a smile .
I , you may well believe , could talk of nothing but my child ;-- he could not conceal his distress ; I saw that it equalled my own , and he perhaps , thinking that mere friendship , as the world now goes , would not justify so warm a sympathy -- or rather , not thinking at all , I suppose -- giving way to irresistible feelings , made me acquainted with his earnest , tender , constant , affection for Marianne .
" His regard for her , infinitely surpassing anything that Willoughby ever felt or feigned , as much more warm , as more sincere or constant -- which ever we are to call it -- has subsisted through all the knowledge of dear Marianne ' s unhappy prepossession for that worthless young man !-- and without selfishness -- without encouraging a hope !-- could he have seen her happy with another -- Such a noble mind !-- such openness , such sincerity !-- no one can be deceived in HIM ."
" I know it is "-- replied her mother seriously , " or after such a warning , I should be the last to encourage such affection , or even to be pleased by it .
my love , I could not then talk of hope to him or to myself .
But he did not ask for hope or encouragement .
" At Delaford , she will be within an easy distance of me ," added Mrs . Dashwood , " even if I remain at Barton ; and in all probability ,-- for I hear it is a large village ,-- indeed there certainly MUST be some small house or cottage close by , that would suit us quite as well as our present situation ."
His emotion on entering the room , in seeing her altered looks , and in receiving the pale hand which she immediately held out to him , was such , as , in Elinor ' s conjecture , must arise from something more than his affection for Marianne , or the consciousness of its being known to others ; and she soon discovered in his melancholy eye and varying complexion as he looked at her sister , the probable recurrence of many past scenes of misery to his mind , brought back by that resemblance between Marianne and Eliza already acknowledged , and now strengthened by the hollow eye , the sickly skin , the posture of reclining weakness , and the warm acknowledgment of peculiar obligation .
At the end of another day or two , Marianne growing visibly stronger every twelve hours , Mrs . Dashwood , urged equally by her own and her daughter ' s wishes , began to talk of removing to Barton .
Marianne had been two or three days at home , before the weather was fine enough for an invalid like herself to venture out .
She was debating within herself on the eligibility of beginning her story directly , or postponing it till Marianne were in stronger health ;-- and they crept on for a few minutes in silence .
Whenever I looked towards the past , I saw some duty neglected , or some failing indulged .
I , and only I , knew your heart and its sorrows ; yet to what did it influence me ?-- not to any compassion that could benefit you or myself .-- Your example was before me ; but to what avail ?-- Was I more considerate of you and your comfort ?
Did I imitate your forbearance , or lessen your restraints , by taking any part in those offices of general complaisance or particular gratitude which you had hitherto been left to discharge alone ?-- No ;-- not less when I knew you to be unhappy , than when I had believed you at ease , did I turn away from every exertion of duty or friendship ; scarcely allowing sorrow to exist but with me , regretting only THAT heart which had deserted and wronged me , and leaving you , for or I professed an unbounded affection , to be miserable for my sake ."
As for Willoughby -- to say that I shall soon or that I shall ever forget him , would be idle .
His remembrance can be overcome by no change of circumstances or opinions .
Elinor , who had now been for some time reflecting on the propriety or impropriety of speedily hazarding her narration , without feeling at all nearer decision than at first , heard this ; and perceiving that as reflection did nothing , resolution must do all , soon found herself leading to the fact .
I never could have been happy with him , after knowing , as sooner or later I must have known , all this .-- I should have had no confidence , no esteem .
His own enjoyment , or his own ease , was , in every particular , his ruling principle ."
Elinor , according to her expectation , saw on the two or three following days , that Marianne did not continue to gain strength as she had done ; but while her resolution was unsubdued , and she still tried to appear cheerful and easy , her sister could safely trust to the effect of time upon her health .
She found that she had been misled by the careful , the considerate attention of her daughter , to think the attachment , which once she had so well understood , much slighter in reality , than she had been wont to believe , or than it was now proved to be .
She now found , that in spite of herself , she had always admitted a hope , while Edward remained single , that something would occur to prevent his marrying Lucy ; that some resolution of his own , some mediation of friends , or some more eligible opportunity of establishment for the lady , would arise to assist the happiness of all .
In Edward -- she knew not what she saw , nor what she wished to see ;-- happy or unhappy ,-- nothing pleased her ; she turned away her head from every sketch of him .
They were all thoughtless or indolent .
I earnestly pressed his coming to us , and should not be surprised to see him walk in today or tomorrow , or any day ."
Edward , who had till then looked any where , rather than at her , saw her hurry away , and perhaps saw -- or even heard , her emotion ; for immediately afterwards he fell into a reverie , which no remarks , no inquiries , no affectionate address of Mrs . Dashwood could penetrate , and at last , without saying a word , quitted the room , and walked out towards the village -- leaving the others in the greatest astonishment and perplexity on a change in his situation , so wonderful and so sudden ;-- a perplexity which they had no means of lessening but by their own conjectures .
He was brought , not from doubt or suspense , but from misery to happiness ;-- and the change was openly spoken in such a genuine , flowing , grateful cheerfulness , as his friends had never witnessed in him before .
But instead of having any thing to do , instead of having any profession chosen for me , or being allowed to chuse any myself , I returned home to be completely idle ; and for the first twelvemonth afterwards I had not even the nominal employment , which belonging to the university would have given me ; for I was not entered at Oxford till I was nineteen .
Considering everything , therefore , I hope , foolish as our engagement was , foolish as it has since in every way been proved , it was not at the time an unnatural or an inexcusable piece of folly ."
But when the second moment had passed , when she found every doubt , every solicitude removed , compared her situation with what so lately it had been ,-- saw him honourably released from his former engagement , saw him instantly profiting by the release , to address herself and declare an affection as tender , as constant as she had ever supposed it to be ,-- she was oppressed , she was overcome by her own felicity ;-- and happily disposed as is the human mind to be easily familiarized with any change for the better , it required several hours to give sedateness to her spirits , or any degree of tranquillity to her heart .
Edward was now fixed at the cottage at least for a week ;-- for whatever other claims might be made on him , it was impossible that less than a week should be given up to the enjoyment of Elinor ' s company , or suffice to say half that was to be said of the past , the present , and the future ;-- for though a very few hours spent in the hard labor of incessant talking will despatch more subjects than can really be in common between any two rational creatures , yet with lovers it is different .
" I thought it my duty ," said he , " independent of my feelings , to give her the option of continuing the engagement or not , when I was renounced by my mother , and stood to all appearance without a friend in the world to assist me .
In such a situation as that , where there seemed nothing to tempt the avarice or the vanity of any living creature , how could I suppose , when she so earnestly , so warmly insisted on sharing my fate , whatever it might be , that any thing but the most disinterested affection was her inducement ?
And even now , I cannot comprehend on what motive she acted , or what fancied advantage it could be to her , to be fettered to a man for whom she had not the smallest regard , and who had only two thousand pounds in the world .
came crying to me the day after , in a great fright for fear of Mrs . Ferrars , as well as not knowing how to get to Plymouth ; for Lucy it seems borrowed all her money before she went off to be married , on purpose we suppose to make a show with , and poor Nancy had not seven shillings in the world ;-- so I was very glad to give her five guineas to take her down to Exeter , where she thinks of staying three or four weeks with Mrs . Burgess , in hopes , as I tell her , to fall in with the Doctor again .
After a visit on Colonel Brandon ' s side of only three or four days , the two gentlemen quitted Barton together .-- They were to go immediately to Delaford , that Edward might have some personal knowledge of his future home , and assist his patron and friend in deciding on what improvements were needed to it ; and from thence , after staying there a couple of nights , he was to proceed on his journey to town .
What she would engage to do towards augmenting their income was next to be considered ; and here it plainly appeared , that though Edward was now her only son , he was by no means her eldest ; for while Robert was inevitably endowed with a thousand pounds a - year , not the smallest objection was made against Edward ' s taking orders for the sake of two hundred and fifty at the utmost ; nor was anything promised either for the present or in future , beyond the ten thousand pounds , which had been given with Fanny .
He merely meant to persuade her to give up the engagement ; and as there could be nothing to overcome but the affection of both , he naturally expected that one or two interviews would settle the matter .
Lucy became as necessary to Mrs . Ferrars , as either Robert or Fanny ; and while Edward was never cordially forgiven for having once intended to marry her , and Elinor , though superior to her in fortune and birth , was spoken of as an intruder , SHE was in every thing considered , and always openly acknowledged , to be a favourite child .
It was an arrangement , however , justified in its effects , if not in its cause ; for nothing ever appeared in Robert ' s style of living or of talking to give a suspicion of his regretting the extent of his income , as either leaving his brother too little , or bringing himself too much ;-- and if Edward might be judged from the ready discharge of his duties in every particular , from an increasing attachment to his wife and his home , and from the regular cheerfulness of his spirits , he might be supposed no less contented with his lot , no less free from every wish of an exchange .
But that he was for ever inconsolable , that he fled from society , or contracted an habitual gloom of temper , or died of a broken heart , must not be depended on -- for he did neither .
Between Barton and Delaford , there was that constant communication which strong family affection would naturally dictate ;-- and among the merits and the happiness of Elinor and Marianne , let it not be ranked as the least considerable , that though sisters , and living almost within sight of each other , they could live without disagreement between themselves , or producing coolness between their husbands .
