" I wonder ," thought Buster , " if some one has stolen Sammy ' s breakfast , or if he has stolen the breakfast of some one else .
He hadn ' t seen Buster Bear , and he didn ' t know that he or any one else was anywhere near .
Perhaps that is what the fish thought he was , for pretty soon , two or three swam right in close to where he was sitting .
Very few of the little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows would willingly quarrel with him , for Little Joe is a great fighter when he has to fight .
As for all those who live in or along the Laughing Brook or in the Smiling Pool , they let Little Joe have his own way in everything .
You see , he is just as fond of fishing as is Little Joe Otter or Billy Mink or Buster Bear .
" Either the trout have lost their appetite or they have grown very wise ," muttered Farmer Brown ' s boy , as after a long time he moved on to the next little pool .
" If I didn ' t know that nobody else comes fishing here , I should think that somebody had been here this very morning and caught all the fish or else frightened them so that they are all in hiding ," said he , as he trudged on to the next little pool .
Thereafter he kept a sharp lookout for signs of Billy Mink , but though he found two or three more trout heads , he saw no other signs and he caught no fish .
It didn ' t seem possible that such a little fellow as Billy Mink could have caught or frightened all the fish or have eaten so many .
Farmer Brown ' s boy isn ' t afraid of any one who lives in the Green Forest or on the Green Meadows or in the Smiling Pool , and you know it .
" I don ' t care whether you believe it or not ; it ' s true ," he retorted .
Then he told how early that very morning he and Buster Bear had been fishing together in the Laughing Brook , and how Farmer Brown ' s boy had been fishing there too , and hadn ' t caught a single trout because they had all been caught or frightened before he got there .
But they were still more afraid of Farmer Brown ' s boy , because they didn ' t know him or understand him , and because in the past he had tried to catch some of them in traps and had hunted some of them with his terrible gun .
You see , they had come to believe that Farmer Brown ' s boy wasn ' t afraid of anybody or anything , and as most of them were very much afraid of him , they had hard work to believe that he would really be afraid of even such a great , big , strong fellow as Buster Bear .
And that is how it happened that no one saw him or heard him until just as Farmer Brown ' s boy stepped out from behind one side of a thick little hemlock - tree , Buster Bear stepped out from behind the other side of that same little tree , and there they were face to face !
For a minute or two everybody forgot about Buster Bear .
They said them among themselves , and some of them even said them to Buster when they met him , or said them so that he would hear them .
There are very few of the little people of the Green Forest and the Green Meadows who do not know fear at some time or other , but it comes to Chatterer as seldom as to any one , because he is very sure of himself and his ability to hide or run away from danger .
I can eat all I want and get back to the Green Forest before there is any danger that Farmer Brown ' s boy or any one else I ' m afraid of will see me .
At first he couldn ' t make out just what it was or where it came from .
He waited a minute or two , but heard nothing more .
Raspberries , blackberries , or blueberries , either kind , will make him perfectly happy .
You see , big as he is and strong as he is , Buster Bear is very shy and bashful , and he has no desire to meet Farmer Brown , or Farmer Brown ' s boy , or any other of those two - legged creatures called men .
There were no leaves or green ones there .
You see it was this way : When Buster found that big tin pail brimming full of delicious berries in the shade of that big bush in the Old Pasture , he didn ' t stop to think whether or not he had a right to them .
He didn ' t think anything about the right or wrong of helping himself .
He isn ' t one tenth so quick tempered as Chatterer the Red Squirrel , or Sammy Jay , or Reddy Fox .
It seemed to Buster as if everybody who lives in the Green Forest , on the Green Meadows , or around the Smiling Brook , was sitting around his hiding place , laughing and making fun of him .
When he had first heard some one in the bushes where he had hidden his pail of berries , he had been very sure that it was one of the cows or young cattle who live in the Old Pasture during the summer .
Two or three times , as he trudged along , he stopped to scratch his head thoughtfully .
