" All the hay that ' s going this week has all gone from places that have donated one load or up to two loads of hay ," he said .
Under the World Trade Organisation ' s rules Australia can refuse the importation of New Zealand apples if they are able to provide scientific evidence of a substantial disease or pest risk .
Usually the trees don ' t produce fruit until they ' re about five or six years old .
AUSVEG says consumers are still being fooled into thinking they ' re buying Australian products because of false or poor labelling .
He says there is also strong division within the community about whether more or less burning off should be carried out in the national park .
" One time , once people finished working as stockhands or ringers on stations they found their little niche in life , either cooking for the station , or driving the grader or running as a bore runner but that just doesn ' t seem to be happening now ," he said .
" Where allegations are made , no matter how ill - founded or how lacking in evidence we must confront it head - on if we are to retain the confidence of the general public and fulfil our responsibilities to farmers ."
But following his mission to Baghdad , Mr Vaile says Iraq could be ready to take as much as 350 , 000 tons of wheat a month , but cannot confirm any deal or when it may start .
Emma Woodhouse , handsome , clever , and rich , with a comfortable home and happy disposition , seemed to unite some of the best blessings of existence ; and had lived nearly twenty - one years in the world with very little to distress or vex her .
He could not meet her in conversation , rational or playful .
The evil of the actual disparity in their ages ( and Mr . Woodhouse had not married early ) was much increased by his constitution and habits ; for having been a valetudinarian all his life , without activity of mind or body , he was a much older man in ways than in years ; and though everywhere beloved for the friendliness of his heart and his amiable temper , his talents could not have recommended him at any time .
Mr . Knightley , a sensible man about seven or eight - and - thirty , was not only a very old and intimate friend of the family , but particularly connected with it , as the elder brother of Isabella ' s husband .
I have a great regard for you and Emma ; but when it comes to the question of dependence or independence !-- At any rate , it must be better to have only one to please than two ."
You do not think I could mean _you_ , or suppose Mr . Knightley to mean _you_ .
Mr . Weston , who had been a widower so long , and who seemed so perfectly comfortable without a wife , so constantly occupied either in his business in town or among his friends here , always acceptable wherever he went , always cheerful -- Mr . Weston need not spend a single evening in the year alone if he did not like it .
Depend upon it , a man of six or seven - and - twenty can take care of himself ."
Mr . Dashwood had wished for it more for the sake of his wife and daughters than for himself or his son ;-- but to his son , and his son ' s son , a child of four years old , it was secured , in such a way , as to leave to himself no power of providing for those who were most dear to him , and who most needed a provision by any charge on the estate , or by any sale of its valuable woods .
The whole was tied up for the benefit of this child , who , in occasional visits with his father and mother at Norland , had so far gained on the affections of his uncle , by such attractions as are by no means unusual in children of two or three years old ; an imperfect articulation , an earnest desire of having his own way , many cunning tricks , and a great deal of noise , as to outweigh all the value of all the attention which , for years , he had received from his niece and her daughters .
No one could dispute her right to come ; the house was her husband ' s from the moment of his father ' s decease ; but the indelicacy of her conduct was so much the greater , and to a woman in Mrs . Dashwood ' s situation , with only common feelings , must have been highly unpleasing ;-- but in HER mind there was a sense of honor so keen , a generosity so romantic , that any offence of the kind , by whomsoever given or received , was to her a source of immoveable disgust .
In seasons of cheerfulness , no temper could be more cheerful than hers , or possess , in a greater degree , that sanguine expectation of happiness which is happiness itself .
It may be very inconvenient some years to spare a hundred , or even fifty pounds from our own expenses ."
The contempt which she had , very early in their acquaintance , felt for her daughter - in - law , was very much increased by the farther knowledge of her character , which half a year ' s residence in her family afforded ; and perhaps in spite of every consideration of politeness or maternal affection on the side of the former , the two ladies might have found it impossible to have lived together so long , had not a particular circumstance occurred to give still greater eligibility , according to the opinions of Mrs . Dashwood , to her daughters ' continuance at Norland .
Edward Ferrars was not recommended to their good opinion by any peculiar graces of person or address .
They wanted him to make a fine figure in the world in some manner or other .
" I wonder ," thought Buster , " if some one has stolen Sammy ' s breakfast , or if he has stolen the breakfast of some one else .
He hadn ' t seen Buster Bear , and he didn ' t know that he or any one else was anywhere near .
Perhaps that is what the fish thought he was , for pretty soon , two or three swam right in close to where he was sitting .
Very few of the little people of the Green Forest or the Green Meadows would willingly quarrel with him , for Little Joe is a great fighter when he has to fight .
As for all those who live in or along the Laughing Brook or in the Smiling Pool , they let Little Joe have his own way in everything .
You see , he is just as fond of fishing as is Little Joe Otter or Billy Mink or Buster Bear .
" Either the trout have lost their appetite or they have grown very wise ," muttered Farmer Brown ' s boy , as after a long time he moved on to the next little pool .
" If I didn ' t know that nobody else comes fishing here , I should think that somebody had been here this very morning and caught all the fish or else frightened them so that they are all in hiding ," said he , as he trudged on to the next little pool .
Of Man ' s first disobedience , and the fruit Of that forbidden tree whose mortal taste Brought death into the World , and all our woe , With loss of Eden , till one greater Man Restore us , and regain the blissful seat , Sing , Heavenly Muse , that , on the secret top Of Oreb , or of Sinai , didst inspire That shepherd who first taught the chosen seed In the beginning how the heavens and earth Rose out of Chaos : or , if Sion hill Delight thee more , and Siloa ' s brook that flowed Fast by the oracle of God , I thence Invoke thy aid to my adventurous song , That with no middle flight intends to soar Above th ' Aonian mount , while it pursues Things unattempted yet in prose or rhyme .
Yet not for those , Nor what the potent Victor in his rage Can else inflict , do I repent , or change , Though changed in outward lustre , that fixed mind , And high disdain from sense of injured merit , That with the Mightiest raised me to contend , And to the fierce contentions brought along Innumerable force of Spirits armed , That durst dislike his reign , and , me preferring , His utmost power with adverse power opposed In dubious battle on the plains of Heaven , And shook his throne .
All is not lost -- the unconquerable will , And study of revenge , immortal hate , And courage never to submit or yield : And what is else not to be overcome ?
That glory never shall his wrath or might Extort from me .
To bow and sue for grace With suppliant knee , and deify his power Who , from the terror of this arm , so late Doubted his empire -- that were low indeed ; That were an ignominy and shame beneath This downfall ; since , by fate , the strength of Gods , And this empyreal sybstance , cannot fail ; Since , through experience of this great event , In arms not worse , in foresight much advanced , We may with more successful hope resolve To wage by force or guile eternal war , Irreconcilable to our grand Foe , Who now triumphs , and in th ' excess of joy Sole reigning holds the tyranny of Heaven ."
So spake th ' apostate Angel , though in pain , Vaunting aloud , but racked with deep despair ; And him thus answered soon his bold compeer :-- " O Prince , O Chief of many throned Powers That led th ' embattled Seraphim to war Under thy conduct , and , in dreadful deeds Fearless , endangered Heaven ' s perpetual King , And put to proof his high supremacy , Whether upheld by strength , or chance , or fate , Too well I see and rue the dire event That , with sad overthrow and foul defeat , Hath lost us Heaven , and all this mighty host In horrible destruction laid thus low , As far as Gods and heavenly Essences Can perish : for the mind and spirit remains Invincible , and vigour soon returns , Though all our glory extinct , and happy state Here swallowed up in endless misery .
What can it the avail though yet we feel Strength undiminished , or eternal being To undergo eternal punishment ?"
Whereto with speedy words th ' Arch - Fiend replied :-- " Fallen Cherub , to be weak is miserable , Doing or suffering : but of this be sure -- To do aught good never will be our task , But ever to do ill our sole delight , As being the contrary to his high will Whom we resist .
How the trampers might have behaved , had the young ladies been more courageous , must be doubtful ; but such an invitation for attack could not be resisted ; and Harriet was soon assailed by half a dozen children , headed by a stout woman and a great boy , all clamorous , and impertinent in look , though not absolutely in word .-- More and more frightened , she immediately promised them money , and taking out her purse , gave them a shilling , and begged them not to want more , or to use her ill .-- She was then able to walk , though but slowly , and was moving away -- but her terror and her purse were too tempting , and she was followed , or rather surrounded , by the whole gang , demanding more .
The pleasantness of the morning had induced him to walk forward , and leave his horses to meet him by another road , a mile or two beyond Highbury -- and happening to have borrowed a pair of scissors the night before of Miss Bates , and to have forgotten to restore them , he had been obliged to stop at her door , and go in for a few minutes : he was therefore later than he had intended ; and being on foot , was unseen by the whole party till almost close to them .
I can see nothing at all extraordinary in him now .-- I do not care whether I meet him or not -- except that of the two I had rather not see him -- and indeed I would go any distance round to avoid him -- but I do not envy his wife in the least ; I neither admire her nor envy her , as I have done : she is very charming , I dare say , and all that , but I think her very ill - tempered and disagreeable -- I shall never forget her look the other night !-- However , I assure you , Miss Woodhouse , I wish her no evil .-- No , let them be ever so happy together , it will not give me another moment ' s pang : and to convince you that I have been speaking truth , I am now going to destroy -- what I ought to have destroyed long ago -- what I ought never to have kept -- I know that very well ( blushing as she spoke ).-- However , now I will destroy it all -- and it is my particular wish to do it in your presence , that you may see how rational I am grown .
But one morning -- I forget exactly the day -- but perhaps it was the Tuesday or Wednesday before _that_ _evening_ , he wanted to make a memorandum in his pocket - book ; it was about spruce - beer .
" Occasionally of course we will detect cysts and we can normally trace them back to sheep or cattle imported from the mainland , in this particular case we found it in an animal which was born and bred in Tasmania ," he said .
A large amount of fruit was left to rot in vineyards or sold below the cost of production .
That said though there ' s been a lot of fruit left on the vine or worked into the ground and had that all been processed we probably would have had another record this year ."
' It ' s going to be a sort of topsy - turvy , or spasmodic , winter .
In Edward -- she knew not what she saw , nor what she wished to see ;-- happy or unhappy ,-- nothing pleased her ; she turned away her head from every sketch of him .
They were all thoughtless or indolent .
I earnestly pressed his coming to us , and should not be surprised to see him walk in today or tomorrow , or any day ."
Edward , who had till then looked any where , rather than at her , saw her hurry away , and perhaps saw -- or even heard , her emotion ; for immediately afterwards he fell into a reverie , which no remarks , no inquiries , no affectionate address of Mrs . Dashwood could penetrate , and at last , without saying a word , quitted the room , and walked out towards the village -- leaving the others in the greatest astonishment and perplexity on a change in his situation , so wonderful and so sudden ;-- a perplexity which they had no means of lessening but by their own conjectures .
The quietness of the game made it particularly eligible for Mr . Woodhouse , who had often been distressed by the more animated sort , which Mr . Weston had occasionally introduced , and who now sat happily occupied in lamenting , with tender melancholy , over the departure of the " poor little boys ," or in fondly pointing out , as he took up any stray letter near him , how beautifully Emma had written it .
" Have you never at any time had reason to think that he admired her , or that she admired him ?"
There is no admiration between them , I do assure you ; and the appearances which have caught you , have arisen from some peculiar circumstances -- feelings rather of a totally different nature -- it is impossible exactly to explain :-- there is a good deal of nonsense in it -- but the part which is capable of being communicated , which is sense , is , that they are as far from any attachment or admiration for one another , as any two beings in the world can be .
Two or three more of the chosen only were to be admitted to join them , and it was to be done in a quiet , unpretending , elegant way , infinitely superior to the bustle and preparation , the regular eating and drinking , and picnic parade of the Eltons and the Sucklings .
In bower and field he sought , where any tuft Of grove or garden - plot more pleasant lay , Their tendance , or plantation for delight ; By fountain or by shady rivulet He sought them both , but wished his hap might find Eve separate ; he wished , but not with hope Of what so seldom chanced ; when to his wish , Beyond his hope , Eve separate he spies , Veiled in a cloud of fragrance , where she stood , Half spied , so thick the roses blushing round About her glowed , oft stooping to support Each flower of slender stalk , whose head , though gay Carnation , purple , azure , or specked with gold , Hung drooping unsustained ; them she upstays Gently with myrtle band , mindless the while Herself , though fairest unsupported flower , From her best prop so far , and storm so nigh .
Nearer he drew , and many a walk traversed Of stateliest covert , cedar , pine , or palm ; Then voluble and bold , now hid , now seen , Among thick - woven arborets , and flowers Imbordered on each bank , the hand of Eve : Spot more delicious than those gardens feigned Or of revived Adonis , or renowned Alcinous , host of old Laertes ' son ; Or that , not mystick , where the sapient king Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian spouse .
As one who long in populous city pent , Where houses thick and sewers annoy the air , Forth issuing on a summer ' s morn , to breathe Among the pleasant villages and farms Adjoined , from each thing met conceives delight ; The smell of grain , or tedded grass , or kine , Or dairy , each rural sight , each rural sound ; If chance , with nymph - like step , fair virgin pass , What pleasing seemed , for her now pleases more ; She most , and in her look sums all delight : Such pleasure took the Serpent to behold This flowery plat , the sweet recess of Eve Thus early , thus alone : Her heavenly form Angelick , but more soft , and feminine , Her graceful innocence , her every air Of gesture , or least action , overawed His malice , and with rapine sweet bereaved His fierceness of the fierce intent it brought : That space the Evil - one abstracted stood From his own evil , and for the time remained Stupidly good ; of enmity disarmed , Of guile , of hate , of envy , of revenge : But the hot Hell that always in him burns , Though in mid Heaven , soon ended his delight , And tortures him now more , the more he sees Of pleasure , not for him ordained : then soon Fierce hate he recollects , and all his thoughts Of mischief , gratulating , thus excites .
his head Crested aloft , and carbuncle his eyes ; With burnished neck of verdant gold , erect Amidst his circling spires , that on the grass Floated redundant : pleasing was his shape And lovely ; never since of serpent - kind Lovelier , not those that in Illyria changed , Hermione and Cadmus , or the god In Epidaurus ; nor to which transformed Ammonian Jove , or Capitoline , was seen ; He with Olympias ; this with her who bore Scipio , the highth of Rome .
There is to be no form or parade -- a sort of gipsy party .
And , by the bye , can I or my housekeeper be of any use to you with our opinion ?-- Pray be sincere , Knightley .
If you wish me to talk to Mrs . Hodges , or to inspect anything --"
He wished to persuade Mr . Woodhouse , as well as Emma , to join the party ; and he knew that to have any of them sitting down out of doors to eat would inevitably make him ill . Mr . Woodhouse must not , under the specious pretence of a morning drive , and an hour or two spent at Donwell , be tempted away to his misery .
Elinor had often wished for an opportunity of attempting to weaken her mother ' s dependence on the attachment of Edward and herself , that the shock might be less when the whole truth were revealed , and now on this attack , though almost hopeless of success , she forced herself to begin her design by saying , as calmly as she could , " I like Edward Ferrars very much , and shall always be glad to see him ; but as to the rest of the family , it is a matter of perfect indifference to me , whether I am ever known to them or not ."
With regard to herself , it was now a matter of unconcern whether she went to town or not , and when she saw her mother so thoroughly pleased with the plan , and her sister exhilarated by it in look , voice , and manner , restored to all her usual animation , and elevated to more than her usual gaiety , she could not be dissatisfied with the cause , and would hardly allow herself to distrust the consequence .
But these objections had all , with that happy ardour of youth which Marianne and her mother equally shared , been overcome or overlooked ; and Elinor , in spite of every occasional doubt of Willoughby ' s constancy , could not witness the rapture of delightful expectation which filled the whole soul and beamed in the eyes of Marianne , without feeling how blank was her own prospect , how cheerless her own state of mind in the comparison , and how gladly she would engage in the solicitude of Marianne ' s situation to have the same animating object in view , the same possibility of hope .
Marianne ' s eagerness to be gone declared her dependence on finding him there ; and Elinor was resolved not only upon gaining every new light as to his character which her own observation or the intelligence of others could give her , but likewise upon watching his behaviour to her sister with such zealous attention , as to ascertain what he was and what he meant , before many meetings had taken place .
Farmer hopes for prosthesis for three - legged cow You may have seen a three - legged dog or even a three - legged cat , but what about a three - legged cow ?
" I would suggest that some of the concerns have been that there is probably a lack of understanding or appreciation from a large number of dairy farmers about where their dairy service levy is invested from Dairy Australia ," he said .
" We might see a couple more days of weakness , or even a week of weakness but I ' m sure it will turn around because the fundamentals are still very strong ," he said .
Plant pathologist Jane Ray says the upgrade includes filter systems to ensure that no material escapes or hitchhikes on staff .
She appeared to me to play well , that is , with considerable taste , but I know nothing of the matter myself .-- I am excessively fond of music , but without the smallest skill or right of judging of any body ' s performance .-- I have been used to hear her ' s admired ; and I remember one proof of her being thought to play well :-- a man , a very musical man , and in love with another woman -- engaged to her -- on the point of marriage -- would yet never ask that other woman to sit down to the instrument , if the lady in question could sit down instead -- never seemed to like to hear one if he could hear the other .
" So much the better -- or so much the worse :-- I do not know which .
But be it sweetness or be it stupidity in her -- quickness of friendship , or dulness of feeling -- there was one person , I think , who must have felt it : Miss Fairfax herself .
do not imagine that I expect an account of Miss Fairfax ' s sensations from you , or from any body else .
That some kind of engagement had subsisted between Willoughby and Marianne she could not doubt , and that Willoughby was weary of it , seemed equally clear ; for however Marianne might still feed her own wishes , SHE could not attribute such behaviour to mistake or misapprehension of any kind .
Before the house - maid had lit their fire the next day , or the sun gained any power over a cold , gloomy morning in January , Marianne , only half dressed , was kneeling against one of the window - seats for the sake of all the little light she could command from it , and writing as fast as a continual flow of tears would permit her .
Mrs . Jennings laughed again , but Elinor had not spirits to say more , and eager at all events to know what Willoughby had written , hurried away to their room , where , on opening the door , she saw Marianne stretched on the bed , almost choked by grief , one letter in her hand , and two or three others laying by her .
I shall never reflect on my former acquaintance with your family in Devonshire without the most grateful pleasure , and flatter myself it will not be broken by any mistake or misapprehension of my actions .
