They found that inhaling a mist with a salt content of 7 or 9 % improved lung function and , in some cases , produced less absenteeism from school or work .
The team found that the 83 volunteers who regularly inhaled a 7 % mist of salty water had fewer breathing problems and less absenteeism from school or work than those who inhaled a solution with a salt content of under 1 %.
The Australian and German researchers say the discovery may help scientists to develop vaccines that restore immunity in people with systemic or ' whole body ' infections .
The immune response is alerted when specialised sentries of the immune system , dendritic cells , detect a virus or bacteria .
They alert the immune system by capturing infected cells and displaying fragments or antigens of the pathogen on their surface in a process called cross - presentation .
Lead researcher Dr Jose Villadangos , an immunologist from the Walter and Eliza Institute of Medical Research in Melbourne , says systemic infections such as malaria or sepsis , a bacterial infection of the blood , overstimulate dendritic cells .
" We should be able to take dendritic cells from a patient with sepsis or malaria and expose them to antigens of the virus of a secondary infection and inject them back into the patient .
" This may be because we have an affective or emotional system that [ works ] independently of our cognitive system ."
Settling Europe They , or their direct descendants , moved into Europe .
Behar and Skorecki ' s team have found what is known as a ' founder effect ', when one or a small number of people have a huge number of descendants .
" The question isn ' t is a particular storm due to climate change , the question is are we loading the dice so that we can expect more storms or will they be more intense ," he says .
And it will be likely to include instant messaging and discussion forums , or use wireless technology .
Watching a sad movie has about the same effect on heart flow as remembering an angry incident or doing mental arithmetic , it says .
But watching a comedy is equivalent to a bout of aerobic exercise or starting a course of cholesterol - busting statin drugs .
Legionella pneumophila likes to live in hot water , such as in industrial cooling towers or the water systems of large buildings where it can then cause pneumonia - like infections .
The Chinese records of Zheng He ' s voyages have largely been lost , either purposely destroyed as part of the ban on ocean - going navigation or due to a fire that ravaged Beijing ' s imperial palace in the 1420s .
The magnets can randomly generate a word , categorise that word ( as a noun , verb , adjective or adverb ) and transmit the category to any words they are placed next to .
They could hand back up to triple the investment , at little reward to themselves , or hand back little or nothing , maximising their own gains at the investor ' s cost .
They would explain for instance why communities everywhere draw up laws or codes to punish or sideline those who cheat and freeload on the majority , she says .
As for the gender difference about punishing a social offender , Singer says she could not rule out the possibility that the experiment favoured men as there was a physical rather than psychological or financial threat involved .
" Munduruku children and adults spontaneously made use of basic geometric concepts such as points , lines , parallelism , or right angles to detect intruders in simple pictures , and they used distance , angle , and sense relationships in geometrical maps to locate hidden objects ," they write .
" Our results provide evidence for geometrical intuitions in the absence of schooling , experience with graphic symbols or maps , or a rich language of geometrical terms ."
" Many of its propositions -- that two points determine a line , or that three orthogonal axes localize a point -- are judged to be self - evident and yet have been questioned on the basis of logical argument , physical theory , or experiment ," the researchers write .
" Most of the children and adults who took part in our experiments inhabit scattered , isolated villages and have little or no schooling , rulers , compasses , or maps ," they write .
" Furthermore , the Munduruku language has few words dedicated to arithmetical , geometrical , or spatial concepts , although a variety of metaphors are spontaneously used ."
" The participants were asked , in their language , to point to the weird or ugly one ," the researchers write .
" Without exception , every strain ... was found to be multi - drug resistant to seven or eight antibiotics on average , with two strains being resistant to 15 of 21 drugs ," the scientists write .
They have been doping titanium dioxide nanoparticles with a small amounts of other elements such as iron or nitrogen , in place of titanium or oxygen .
A long tailfin or ' sword ' scares off competitors and impresses the ladies Colourful aquarium fish known as swordtails , size up competitors ' tailfins before fighting , US scientists show .
For male swordtails , this characteristic is an extension of the tail or caudal fin .
Benson , a researcher at Lynchburg College , says , " The sword might signal many things : how strong and vigorous he is , how well he ate while growing up or simply by indicating that he is large ."
Like the fish swords , they can also weed out competitors who may not be as talented or humourous .
The glaciers would have resembled those found on Earth in places such as Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa or the Andean peaks in South America , the researchers report in the latest issue issue of the journal Science .
Researchers have speculated whether the tropical glaciers came from snow or perhaps oozed up from underground .
" I used to be a medical doctor and I didn ' t realise it at the time , but the reason I was doing it was to liberate people from what ails them or to help them get to the next stage , like a conduit .
The habitat is based on an ancient gardening method known as pleaching , which weaves together tree branches to form living archways , lattices or screens .
Joachim ' s dream is to plan an entire community based on the living house design , but before that can happen , he will need to conduct a year or two ' s worth of sociology and feasibility studies .
Professor David Macmillan of the University of Melbourne has previously piqued the interest of NASA , which has applied his earlier work on the crayfish , or yabby ( Cherax destructor ), to developing tiny space exploration robots .
Macmillan says just as humans looking for the bathroom in the middle of the night grope around with their hands , yabbies in dark or murky waters use their antennae to orientate themselves .
They also use chemosensory receptors all over their bodies that allow them to detect chemicals in the water from food , mates or predators .
Bubble wrap or sandpaper ?
The DNA collected from teeth from an ancient Greek burial site is similar to a modern organism that causes typhoid fever , an infection spread by contaminated food or water .
It could possibly also form the basis of a home magic - mushroom test kit or a urine test , she says .
Mass spectrometry or ultra violet absorption produced equally good results when testing for psilocin and psilocybin in magic mushrooms , he says .
The filed furrows were made in more or less the same area of the teeth in all individuals ," Arcini says .
The marks were cut deep into the enamel and occurred often in pairs or triplets .
The researcher speculates that the marks could have been some sort of decoration or a badge to indicate class or military rank .
" Maybe this is the explanation for multiple furrows or deeper ones ," Arcini says .
Hunting for extrasolar planets Most extrasolar planets discovered have been ' hot Jupiters ' or gas giant planets in small orbits , detected by the gravitational ' wobble ' they induce in the parent star .
Volunteers who had had penetrative sex during the previous week or so had the least stress , and their blood pressure returned to normal fastest after their test .
Penetrative sex was far more effective in this regard than masturbation or oral sex .
Brody also did a psychological profile of the volunteers to see whether they had an anxious or neurotic character , and evaluated their work stress and satisfaction with their partners .
They say the results of recent tests suggest the engine , the Dual Stage Four Grid Thruster ( DS4G ), would reduce the time for craft to reach Mars or Pluto and beyond .
Another option is the new engine could help take heavier missions to shorter distances such as the Moon or Mars .
When graduate student Sterling Nesbitt opened the plaster jacket encasing the find in 2005 , he saw an articulated fossil that closely resembled bird - like dinosaurs called ornithomimids , or ostrich dinosaurs , that lived 80 million years later .
" Some of the studies use what appear to be obsolete data or data whose quality cannot be verified ."
Environmentalists hope it could be developed as a cleaner source of fuel than oil or gas .
" Our patient had an underlying ketosis caused by the Atkins diet and developed severe ketoacidosis ," say the researchers , adding that mild pancreatitis or stomach infection may have contributed to the problem .
" Low - carbohydrate diets for weight management are far from healthy , given their association with ketosis , constipation or diarrhoea , halitosis , headache and general fatigue to name a few ," they say .
The researchers used a PET or positron emission tomography scan to measure blood flow in the brains before and after .
In fact , it was Charles Darwin who tested whether self - sealed land snails could survive on logs or other floating debris .
As for the Tristan da Cunha island snails , it could be birds or storms that brought them there , says Cowie .
Belov will also examine the MHC in the platypus , the first monotreme , or egg - laying mammal , to have its genome sequenced .
And people of European or African descent are more likely to have the wet variety .
" Given what we know about the ecology and behaviour of devils , if you ' re going to pick any species that might transmit any pathogen or disease by biting , devils would be a very likely candidate ," Jones says .
" What ' s nice about the allograph theory is that it does make disease suppression or disease control simpler ," she says .
Because its orbit is relatively low , it will be pulled back into Earth ' s atmosphere within a few weeks or months and be incinerated .
Project organisers already have their eyes on another Russian spacesuit expected to be decommissioned later this year or in 2007 .
" A police band scanner or a hand - talkie ham radio would work just fine ."
SuitSat is an outgrowth of the amateur radio project already operating aboard the space station , Amateur Radio on International Space Station , or ARISS .
The virus , also known as Grew . A or MyWife , tricks users by appearing as an email attachment with subject lines such as Hot Movie , give me a kiss and Miss Lebanon 2006 .
" It claims to be a movie or picture with some sort of sexual content ," says Johannes Ullrich , chief research officer at the nonprofit SANS Institute research group .
The Kama Sutra worm also stands out because its primary purpose is to destroy files rather than to seek financial gain or to take control of a computer , security experts say .
" Quite simply , if the dog and wolf genomes really did separate as long ago as some molecular studies have suggested , or even in that vicinity , the animals that were destined to become dogs must have made their living for some time essentially in the old - fashioned way , like wolves ," he says .
" The idea of the trend curve is to have a line at the top which more or less always will be achieved , and a line at the bottom which is never to be achieved ."
" Whether that ' s through evolution or science or drugs we just don ' t know ," he says .
They say they have measured reflected solar radiation from Xena , or 2003 UB313 to give it its official name , using a 30 metre telescope in Spain .
Either that , or the planetary list will have to expand to include UB313 and possibly many others .
But if the object is confirmed as a planet , he will be under pressure to name it , like the nine others , after a figure from Greek or Roman mythology .
The so - called TAP molecules deliver peptides inside cells from the body ' s immune system or vaccines .
The comet nucleus is in blue and maroon , and the impact flash is ringed in multiple colours Ice has been detected on the nucleus , or solid body , of a comet for the first time , researchers report .
Medicine in the man ' s pockets and sophisticated weapons seemed to indicate that he was a shaman or a chieftain .
Collected water , otherwise known as reclaimed or grey water , may also contain deadly plant viruses .
Instead , the viruses probably hitch a ride through the human body via food , even when the food is cooked or dried .
" One might then wonder whether this is simply a relatively unique finding to one or few individuals with a specific dietary proclivity .
" At least a half , but variously estimated at about two - thirds , have a condition that ' s in some part the result of social or psychological factors ," Franklin says .
Patients with hypochondriasis , or health anxiety as psychologists prefer to describe it , usually complain of physical symptoms , but these tend to be vague and non - specific .
" The score they get can alert the GP to the possibility that there are social or psychological issues that might be going on ," he says .
For example , if a computer senses that its user is agitated , it might tone down the background colour of the screen , turn down background music , enlarge or reduce graphics , adjust the flow of information being presented to the user or simply apologise .
Less - obtrusive means , such as using a video to monitor gestures or a recorder to analyse voice , allow the user to behave more naturally .
Information gathered by the glove is transmitted wirelessly to a base unit , which stores it on a memory card or sends it to a computer database .
A different combination of other variables suggests the person is slightly surprised or very surprised .
The second licence is for IVF embryos that have failed to develop properly and contain chromosomal abnormalities or mutations .
Fresh or frozen ?
In a paper published in the journal Endocrine Reviews , Trounson reviews the use of chromosomally abnormal or mutant human embryos from IVF clinics using PIGD .
Will they increase or decrease in area or extent ?
Because that can have an effect in either warming or cooling the climate ," he says .
Does RU - 486 , otherwise known as Mifeprex or mifepristone , have side - effects ?
It is not a poison or a toxin , and has very few side - effects .
These included four otherwise healthy women who had died from bleeding or septic shock after taking the drug , the most common side - effects reported by all women .
This kentia or thatch palm grows near its sister species , the curly palm .
The two species , the kentia or thatch palm ( Howea forsteriana ) and curly palm ( H . belmoreana ), appear to have diverged after they began flowering at different times of year , probably as a result of differing soil preferences .
A lost world Helgen says while Diamond made observations of a number of birds in the Foja Mountains , he did not collect data or specimens .
The researchers say the area is probably a 15 or 20 day walk from the nearest village .
" In a global context it may well be unique or very nearly so , in being one of the last places that is not showing any impact at all of human activities ."
Infection can lead to blood poisoning ( meningococcal septicaemia ), inflammation of the outer lining around the brain and spinal cord ( meningococcal meningitis ), or a combination of the two .
" But if by chance you have a sore throat because of a smoky atmosphere or an existing virus , the inflammation in your throat disrupts the protective epithelial membrane .
University students are a high - risk group , the study shows , as are teens who were born pre - term or who had glandular fever .
And after 600 , 700 or 800 milliseconds , this oscillation becomes so vigorous that it sends out sound waves .
" This might be like the death knell or the last alarm bell that something bad is about to happen ."
Friendship may be just as important to some primates as it is for humans , new research suggests Female baboons that suffer the loss of a close friend or relative turn to other baboons for comfort and support , according to a new study .
Engh , a postdoctoral researcher in the Department of Biology at the University of Pennsylvania , adds : " After a week or two of moping around , Sylvia suddenly initiated grooming with several low - ranking females .
Those levels rise in humans and baboons after a close friend or relative dies .
" Female [ baboons ] usually have one or two close female friends that usually devote a large proportion of their grooming to each other , and they seem to enjoy spending time close together ."
Dr Quentin Parker of Sydney ' s Macquarie University and the Anglo - Australian Observatory is head of data management at the international Radial Velocity Experiment , or RAVE , which uses Australia ' s UK Schmidt telescope .
It ' s another bit of evidence for the now widely accepted cannibal , or accretion , theory of galactic evolution , Parker says .
The RAVE study is measuring the speed of a million stars in the Milky Way using radial velocity , or the motion of a star along the line of sight between the telescope and the star .
The scientists are calling them RRATs , or rotating radio transients .
" We knew that RRATs were pulsars , even though the pulses were isolated , just a single burst and then they might shut up for an hour or two ," says Manchester .
Magnetic , reborn or just plain weird ?
But Manchester is not ruling out the possibility that they may be ' zombies ', old pulsars suddenly brought back to life by growing magnetic fields or ordinary pulsars radiating in an unusual way .
Bressler and Canadian researcher Dr Sigal Balshine , an assistant professor at McMaster University in Ontario , demonstrated in an experiment that a good sense of humour , or GSOH as it appears in personal ads , does make a difference .
They showed groups of women pictures of two equally attractive men and presented autobiographical statements that were either funny or serious .
He disagrees with suggestions that it should be a matter for journals to censor what they publish or for scientists to censor themselves .
" Scientists are people who have expert knowledge so it means that policy decisions are made without expert knowledge or by the expert knowledge of vested interests only ," he says .
It ' s something that society should be paying attention to , it should be put on the agenda without fear or favour ."
In the new study , babies listened either to two or three women simultaneously saying the word ' look '.
At the same time , the infants could choose between video images of two or three women saying the word .
" As a result of our experiments , we conclude that the babies are showing an internal representation of ' two - ness ' or three - ness ' that is separate from sensory modalities and thus reflects an abstract internal process ," writes researcher Dr Elizabeth Brannon , an assistant professor in psychological and brain sciences .
Insomnia , based on formal clinical criteria , was defined as problems falling asleep or staying asleep at least four times a week for a month or longer .
Voodoo priests in Benin , which borders Nigeria where an outbreak of the deadly H5N1 virus was found in poultry last week , sacrifice animals to invoke blessings or favours from the gods .
Priests commonly kill birds by ripping their throats out with their teeth or using a knife to cut their heads off .
A common practice An estimated 60 % of Benin ' s 7 million people practise voodoo , although many also follow other religions like Christianity or Islam .
EFA is also worried that this Kazaa ruling could one day lead to email providers inappropriately monitoring , filtering or blocking messages .
It says filtering may catch files that are not infringing copyright , for example music already in the public domain or music deliberately distributed free by independent music groups .
" There is no evidence that there is any reduction in competition or innovation following the decision ," says the spokesperson .
Alangui says mathematicians should ask why the static version of numbers or circles has come to dominate .
" Given that , there are two possibilities : one is that you have the same number of storms that you have on Earth , but they are weaker ; or two , they are just as strong but there are fewer ."
New research shows it ' s best for our unconscious to work on big decisions When faced with a major decision , such as buying a car or a house , it ' s best to do your homework , then forget about it for a while and let your unconscious churn through the options .
Conscious deliberation is fine for the less important , more mundane everyday choices like deciding which shampoo or towels to buy , but not for bigger decisions , the report indicates .
Consciousness has a " low capacity " causing individuals to consider only a subset of relevant information and they may inappropriately weight the importance or relevance of this information .
Tuch says if the trial works , it will mean that insulin producing cells , or islets , can be transplanted , effectively reversing type 1 diabetes , without the need for immunosuppressive drugs .
So , on behalf of NASA and the now independently funded Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence , or SETI , she narrowed down the list to stars that could have planets with liquid water orbiting them .
So the star cannot be too bright , or it will obscure the planet .
Variable stars , which grow hotter and cooler , probably would not be conducive to life , so they are thrown out , as are stars that are too young or too old .
Life elsewhere may be built from different ingredients , or structured very differently , she says .
She says it is impossible to find out how many cases of autism there were in the past , because many people with autism were often diagnosed as retarded , or never diagnosed .
The researchers measured such moisture evaporation , or transpiration , and photosynthesis activity for leaves on 60 woody species from two regions with differing climates : Pennsylvania and North Carolina .
Plants in drier regions seem to be better off if they have fewer teeth or are toothless .
Then in the Middle Ages , when urine analysis enjoyed its heyday , specimens were routinely examined in a matula , or urine glass , held up to the light .
Urine in the hospital Foot says urine can provide information about whether patients are taking certain medications or are being over - administered .
Using urine to diagnose disease Dark brown or tea coloured urine can indicate infection in patients who have undergone heart or valve operations because it suggests the patient is haemolysing , or breaking down red cells .
But once the urochrome becomes concentrated , urine can go dark yellow or brownish , which suggests it ' s time for a drink .
But urine inspection isn ' t always fail - proof , she says , because individual urine pH levels and genetic factors can influence whether or not certain substances discolour it .
This would mean a higher - density memory or higher memory capacity in a small package , the company says .
But he says evidence linking this to climate change is inconclusive or lacking .
McBride says there ' s no proof that cyclones have become more common or will become more frequent in the future , or that they ' ll take place in more parts of the world .
He says the report also questions claims that tropical cyclones have become more intense over the past 50 years , saying data used in the past may be inaccurate or incomplete because of limitations with the technology of the day .
Now scientists say some of these chemicals repel insects Some Australian frogs create their own insect repellent , some resembling rotten meat and others roasted cashew nuts or thyme leaves , researchers find .
" The frogs produce hundreds of chemicals and one frog ' s smell might be made up of six or seven different chemicals , so they all smell quite different ," Williams says .
They generally saw or caught sharks at up to 2000 metres , but there were few sharks beyond this depth .
" All populations are therefore within reach of human fisheries , and there is no hidden reserve of chondrichthyan biomass or biodiversity in the deep sea .
Endangered or facing extinction Of the 490 species of shark , 25 are endangered or facing extinction , according to the Red List of threatened biodiversity compiled by the World Conservation Union ( IUCN ).
Ebstein believes some adults may possess the special gene variants , but they perhaps never nurtured the related skills or recognised their hidden talent .
Ebstein explained that the identified genes seem to be linked to every form of dancing , from tap to hula , since all usually involve social communication and connecting to music or rhythms .
There may be many possible algorithms that solve a problem , or paths to get from A to B .
Grilled , steamed , grilled or baked , the eel is a delicacy in Japan , where it is known as unagi .
They have used a genetic modification ( GM ) method known as RNA interference , or RNAi , to identify the genes responsible for high fibre .
And , says Morell , the high amylose content of the wheat means it is potentially another tool for managing our diet ' s glycaemic index or GI .
Clubbers Ecstasy , methylenedioxymethamphetamine or MDMA , was used in the 1970s to treat depression .
For more information about ecstasy and other drugs , side - effects , and where to go for support or referral , see the DrugInfo Clearinghouse website , run by the Australian Drug Foundation .
The burst lasted for nearly 2000 seconds , or about 33 minutes , astronomers say .
The researchers monitored 32 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease , or GERD , who had stopped taking their acid - suppressing medication .
The rationale behind the report , entitled DNA for peace : reconciling biodevelopment and biosecurity , is fear that there will be a crackdown on genuine scientific research in the name of biosecurity , an attempt to prevent biological warfare or deliberately created epidemics .
That would include efforts to cure or prevent disease , and to alleviate poverty , they say .
The length of a particular gene controls your risk of developing depression after divorce , unemployment or illness More than a fifth of the population has a genetic predisposition to major depression triggered by a string of stressful life events , Australian researchers announce .
These events include : the loss of a parent or other significant relative ; a relationship breakdown ; or employment , financial , housing and health crises .
The researchers found that people with a ' short ' version of the serotonin transporter gene have an 80 % chance of developing clinical depression if they have three or more negative life events in a year .
People with a ' long ', or more protective , version of the gene only have a 30 % risk of becoming depressed under similar circumstances .
Professor Philip Mitchell , head of the university ' s School of Psychiatry and convenor of Brain Sciences UNSW , emphasises that this is a susceptibility or risk gene not a disease gene .
For information about depression , including support and referral options , see Australia ' s national depression initiative beyondblue , or depressioNet .
The deposits are one factor used to determine Tambora ' s eruption rate , or how much content was spewed out of the volcano and how quickly .
The image is of the gigantic Pinwheel galaxy , or Messier 101 , and was compiled from 51 images from the Hubble Space Telescope , with extra data from ground - based telescopes .
" It ' s not the virus or an ongoing inflammatory response directed at the virus causing ongoing symptoms .
It is a group of symptoms for which there is no medical or psychiatric explanation including unrefreshing sleep , muscle and joint pain , concentration and memory difficulties and prolonged fatigue .
People with CFS are often unable to work or attend school .
" My view is we probably have sufficient , strong , supportive anecdotal and suggestive evidence , although no solid long - term evidence , that for many women taking the pill or an intra - uterine device ... for extra years than they might have done for contraception may help later protect against a number of conditions ."
The implants , controlled by a small radio transmitter , stimulate either the right or left side of a brain area dedicated to smell , causing the fish to flick around in that direction in response to the signal .
Other DARPA - funded researchers are working on using implants to record brain activity in sharks to understand which neurons are fired by scents , electrical or magnetic fields .
Experts disagree about which of Shakespeare ' s portraits are real or fake and what we can tell about his health by studying them William Shakespeare died in pain of a rare form of cancer that deformed his left eye , according to a German academic who says she has discovered the disease in four genuine portraits of the world ' s most famous playwright .
Dr Marshall Weisler of the University of Queensland will discuss his research on the reliance of Pitcairn islanders on the neighbouring Mangareva or Gambier islanders at a conference in Mexico later this year .
There are two more grades beyond this , orange or close encounter , and red or collision is certain , involving objects capable of inflicting regional or global devastation .
The asteroid ' s closest proximity to Earth on the 2102 flyby was not given by Morrison or the hazard list maintained by NASA and the US Jet Propulsion Laboratory .
The team calculated that the ice sheet lost 152 cubic kilometres a year from April 2002 to August 2005 , give or take 80 cubic kilometres .
But the experts don ' t know how long it will last , or what its effects will be La Ni & ntilde ; a may be on its way , says the UN ' s weather agency , an event that tends to bring above - average rainfall to Australia and parts of Southeast Asia .
" It is unprecedented in the historical record for a La Ni & ntilde ; a of substantial intensity or duration to develop so early in the year ."
The task is that much harder in a thick spacesuit , which leaves little room for a decent swing or flexing the joints .
The ball thus could quite easily be mis - hit and travel only a couple of metres , or be hooked or sliced and sent in entirely the wrong direction .
And what that means is a remote risk of a collision , capable of damaging or even destroying the space station , depending on the angle , velocity and site of impact .
But the fruit of the Syzygium maire or swamp maire tops the lot , with 18 times the concentration .
It ' s unstable because it ' s lacking an electron , or it ' s got too many , so it just wants to grab one from anywhere , including the tissue from your lung or your bowels ."
Using a new model that takes into account what happens under the Sun ' s surface and data about previous solar cycles , astronomers say the next cycle could start as soon as this year or as late as 2008 .
Twisted magnetic fields Every 11 years or so , the Sun goes through an active period , with lots of sunspots .
But scientists do not agree whether the active period will start within months , late 2006 or early 2007 , or years , with the first signs in late 2007 or early 2008 .
" What we have here is a prediction that the cycle is going to be very active , and what we need and what we ' re of course working on is to be able to predict individual storms with a couple days or hours in advance so the grids can take the action ," Behnke says .
Scientists previously speculated that we either filter out unnecessary information after the motion or sensation occurs , or that we predict our own actions .
This would allow us to mostly ignore unnecessary sensations , such as the feel of our vocal chords while we speak , or the constant tapping of our fingers while typing at a keyboard .
As he tries to make sense of the alien voice , the explanation for it could be quite bizarre , such as thinking it is coming from a wall or the pavement ."
The scientists believe that most of the 10 , 000 or so inhabitants of the area probably survived the eruption .
According to Sheridan , while there may not be a high probability that events like the Avellino eruption or the Pompeii eruption will occur in the near future , Italian authorities must still consider those possibilities .
Do you metabolise caffeine quickly or slowly ?
For those with the slow - acting gene , two to three cups of coffee a day increased their odds of a heart attack by 36 %, and four or more cups a day increased the risk by 64 %, the study says .
" For those who had the fast version of the gene , there was no increased risk , even with four or more cups a day ," he says .
Those with the fast - acting gene who drank two to three cups of coffee a day had 22 % reduced odds of having a heart attack , but drinking four or more cups a day lessened the risk by 1 %, the study found .
And variations of the gene for this enzyme can slow down or speed up caffeine metabolism .
" An individual cannot predict whether or not they have the slow or fast version of the gene , because although they can feel the effects of caffeine on the nervous system , they cannot feel the effects on their blood vessels ," El - Sohemy says .
" Of all the studies that have been conducted to date that looked at the effects of either coffee or caffeine on heart disease , none of them have taken into account genetic differences in the ability to break down caffeine ," El - Sohemy says .
" Horses don ' t have to read newspapers or drive cars .
Most of their time is spent eating or watching out for what they think are predators ," he says .
The key components of the networks are small portable computer devices , such as PCs or mobile phones that can transmit as well as receive microwave signals .
Their ability to transmit means that , as well as being a PC or mobile phone , the devices can act as nodes in a communication network .
Kanishka was a very important king in northern India in about the 1st or 2nd century AD , but the dates he lived and ruled have been debated for a century or more .
A gamma - ray burst , or GRB , is one of the few things in the universe bright enough to be seen so long and far away .
" At that point we either had found the most distant burst in the universe , or there was dust in the way ," Reichart says .
Because all light , when broken into a spectrum , carries essentially a bar code of the elements that created or influenced it , the light from GRB 050904 could reveal a lot about where and when heavy elements become more common in the early universe .
" It is highly unlikely that Snuppy came either from extreme inbreeding or from ... twinning ," says the Seoul panel .
The reconstructed egg is then given a jolt of electricity or treated to a chemical cocktail to make it divide , and placed in a bath of nurturing chemicals to continue growing .
The eggs then go to a special duct to mature for two or three days .
But experts are worried about the risks involved with this so - called xenotourism or xenotravel , both to the patient and to the rest of the community .
Xenotourism is where someone specifically goes to another country for a xenotransplant , the transplant of animal tissue or organs to treat conditions like diabetes .
" If you go from the United States , down to Mexico , have a transplant , and fly back into the United States you don ' t tick on your immigration , quarantine or any other form that you ' ve been potentially exposed to this type of risk .
She says Australia should address the issue now , despite its moratorium , which d ' Apice predicts will be lifted in just two or three years .
The clot can then migrate to the heart , lung or brain , sometimes days or weeks later , and inflict a heart attack or stroke .
A total of 40 % of the people in the study were selected as they took the contraceptive pill , had a gene variation called factor V Leiden , or both , conditions which greatly increase the risk of blood clotting .
They were not allowed to drink alcohol , take aspirin or wear elastic stockings during the flight or the movies , and were asked to remain seated as much as possible .
There already exists an array of simple techniques or over - the - counter drugs for combatting DVT .
The Australian researchers say their technology will also make other forms of communication in the virtual world - whether for work , study or play - more like real life .
The technology could be useful for corporate meetings , interactive online conferences or other events , says Boustead .
They named it Laonastes aenigmamus , or Laotian rock rat .
Some 70 % of the continent is covered by desert or semi - arid land , which meant its original inhabitants needed to know how to find and manage this resource if they were to survive .
" Groundwater was accessed through natural springs or people used to dig tunnels to access it ," he says .
Letting worrying or persistent thoughts into your head before you go to sleep is the best way to avoid having dreams or nightmares about them Advice to forget about your worries before bedtime can backfire , according to new research .
An Australian study has found that trying to banish unwanted thoughts , like money problems or relationship dramas , actually leads to having more dreams or nightmares .
" People who are highly anxious , or have a lot of things on their mind , the distraction process suffers , allowing the detection process to predominate , and they are going to think more about the unwanted thoughts ," he says .
Teenagers not wishing to keep thinking about a girlfriend or boyfriend when they are meant to be concentrating on other things can find themselves dealing with the same paradox , Bryant says .
The researchers say these stem cells could be coaxed into forming specialised heart cells , which might one - day be used to treat failing or damaged hearts .
Almost all of the 100 or so cyclotides discovered so far have come from plants , animals and bacteria .
Cyclotides are also naturally occurring , compared to other small circular proteins , or cyclic peptides , which have either been physically manipulated in the lab or " arranged " by a chemical interaction in the body .
" When they formed , they were either red - hot or white - hot and we found them in the Siberia of the solar system ," says Stardust lead scientist Professor Donald Brownlee , with the University of Washington .
Far from simple icy bodies with clouds of gas and dust , comets , or at least Comet Wild 2 , now appear to be a blend of materials formed at all temperature ranges .
Forging metals Brownlee and other Stardust researchers expect to learn whether the high - temperature metals were forged near the center of the nebular cloud that eventually became our solar system or whether they come from another star .
Researchers plan extensive studies to determine the chemical histories of the sample particles , which will eventually reveal whether the grains came from our solar system or another star .
Dekker says women who had had three miscarriages or women in their mid - 30s who had had two , and did not have a condition known as a blighted ovum , could be referred .
Women with a personal or family history of thrombophilia could also be referred , as could women with a history of pre - eclampsia or unexplained preterm birth .
" In a sense it ' s not that much more than third year or fourth year applied maths or economics at university ," says Possingham .
As a result , they say , it is possible that criminals or militants could use an infected RFID tag to upset airline baggage handling systems with potentially devastating consequences .
But , until now , nano - assembly has been a complex atom - by - atom procedure that is also costly , because it is carried out in a vacuum or at extremely coldly temperatures .
The basic structure is then supplemented by around 200 shorter strands , which both strengthen it and act rather like pixels in a computer or TV image , thus providing a shape that can bear a complex pattern .
Whether your brain triggers you to act violently or not is determined by a complex mix of genes and environment People who are genetically predisposed to violence have a different brain structure to others , a new study suggests .
" This expression of MAOA form is really important in terms of how a brain will deal with a social situation , whether [ a person will ] go over the top or not ," says Rogers , who has written extensively on the relationship between genes and environment .
But it ' s not clear whether it offers any clues to how the Maldives or other atolls will withstand rapid rises in sea level due to the melting of glaciers by global warming .
Ptolemaic trendsetters From the time of Egyptian King Ptolemy I , the Ptolemaic queens wore the ' melon hairstyle ' with its segmented sections resembling a melon or gourd ," Kleiner says .
Dr Thomas Hanke , chief scientific officer at TeGenero , says previous tests on animals hadn ' t produced drug related adverse events or drug - related deaths .
He says the focus shouldn ' t be on antibody treatments in general , or stopping clinical trials .
One of the two strains , or clades , made people sick in Vietnam , Cambodia and Thailand in 2003 and 2004 and the second , a cousin of the first , caused the disease in people in Indonesia in 2005 .
Two clades may share the same ancestor but are genetically distinct , as are different clades , or strains , of HIV , the team from the CDC found .
" Like the group one or clade one viruses , the group two or clade two viruses are not easily transmitted from person to person ," she says .
This amounts to about 20 six year cycles made up of roughly four neutral years and two years of El Ni & ntilde ; o or La Ni & ntilde ; a , or one year of each .
" Any one event by itself doesn ' t prove or disprove anything ."
These receive chemical fuel , such as hydrogen or methanol , through a circulatory system , convert it to mechanical energy , and store any unused energy for later .
Such muscles could be used to move robots and robotic exoskeletons , or as part of structures on air and marine vehicles that morph into different shapes .
A cord or batteries normally supply the power .
Both types of muscles could be used in autonomous robots or as robotic armor worn by soldiers or astronauts to give them super - human strength , the scientists say .
" It involves a pure tone that ascends or descends extremely rapidly across a very broad frequency spectrum .
In terms of accents , he says that geographical variations , or dialects , are found in other songbirds , whales , seals and primates .
Phillips and his colleagues from the University of Neuch & acirc ; tel , Switzerland , think the method could one day work in visible light and lead to new technologies that help see through rubble to search for victims at a disaster site or observe internal body parts obscured by bone .
A scramjet ( supersonic combustion ramjet ) operates at speeds greater than Mach 5 , or five times the speed of sound .
Sick building syndrome is a popular yet vague term to describe headaches , coughs , tired or itchy eyes , runny noses or inexplicable tiredness that are usually blamed on poor air quality in the office .
One in seven of the men and nearly one in five of the women respondents reported five or more symptoms of the syndrome .
" It ' s not really a debate any more about whether sea level is rising or not .
The textile is made up of repeated spirals of more or less the same size in a particular dense and fairly regular arrangement ( see image below ).
" But the emotional eaters , people who eat chocolate to relieve boredom , stress or clinical depression , are looking for an opioid effect to improve their mood ."
But this is quickly followed by a return to or a worsening of their earlier negative state .
" Our review rejects any possibility that chocolate desired as a way of relieving stress or when feeling down has any antidepressant benefit ."
Alpha waves The study ' s 55 participants received 30 minutes of mobile phone radiation , or 30 minutes of ' sham ' radiation , on successive Sunday nights before being tucked into bed .
" We found that in the first hour or so after getting to sleep that there was a significant change in one of the parameters of brain activity , that is the amount of alpha waves in the brain wave patterns ," he says .
Lack says melatonin ' s role in sleep is unclear and it ' s uncertain whether having more or less affects your sleep .
Wood says that at this stage mobile phones don ' t seem to influence how well you sleep , unless the phones ring at all hours or you ' ve had a particularly exciting conversation .
" They are at different levels of hierarchy , or layers .
" Information in the context of information theory does not include ' meaning ', but it focuses on how rare , surprising , predictable or complex a message is ," Suzuki explains .
By comparison , humans generate 10 bits of information , or variance , for every word that is spoken .
Each spoken vowel or syllable , for example , contains at least a few bits of data that correspond to different sounds produced by the speaker .
Some studies have shown that the beverages , or their main ingredients , may improve mood and physical performance .
The technology , which used networks of rat neurones grown in culture , could lead to the creation of ' neural prostheses ' or the creation of ' organic computers ' powered by living neurones , the team says .
" Genes are where memory comes from and without them you have no memory or computation ," he says .
" They would target a particular gene , maybe heart disease or addiction , and link it to a computer chip tucked away under your skin , and try and influence [ gene communication ]."
Storing carbon is the key It turns out that when the bacteria store the carbon , they convert it into a plastic known as polyhydroxyalkanoate , or PHA .
" Nothing can be surprising any more , or impossible or miraculous , now that Zeus , father of the Olympians , has made night out of noonday , hiding the bright sunlight , and ... fear has come upon mankind ," wrote the Greek poet Archilochus after an eclipse in 648 BC .
In clever kids , the brain ' s cortex or outer mantle thickens rapidly during adolescence Intelligence may have more to do with how the brain develops during adolescence than its overall size , researchers say .
The cortex , or outer mantle of the brain , starts out thinner and thickens more rapidly in very intelligent children .
It peaks around 11 or 12 years old before thinning rapidly in the late teens .
Why children have a thicker or thinner cortex initially is also not known .
" Brainy children are not cleverer solely by virtue of having more or less grey matter at any one age ," says Dr Judith Rapoport , a co - author of the study .
The researchers add that the thinning phase could involve a " use it or lose it " pruning , or killing off , of brain cells and their connections as the brain matures and becomes more efficient .
But that doesn ' t fit with current models of how the rings formed Minute moons just a hundred metres or so across orbit Saturn within its rings , astronomers report , a finding that questions how the planet ' s majestic ring system came into being .
The prevailing theory is that Saturn ' s rings , reflected by the distant Sun , comprise the remnants of an icy moon that long ago was smashed open by an asteroid or comet .
Their evidence comes from data sent back by the orbiting US spacecraft Cassini , which shows gaps , shaped rather like a propeller blade or an elongated teardrop , in some of the rings .
" We do pure basic research or research based purely on scholarship ," says Stelbovics , who is pro vice - chancellor of research of Murdoch University .
The new protocol recommends 30 chest compressions to every two breaths when resuscitating infants , children or adults .
" There are 30 , 000 - 35 , 000 cardiac arrests annually in Australia - due to a heart attack , drowning or drug overdose for example - but less than half receive CPR before an ambulance arrives and most [ who don ' t ] will die ," says Jacobs .
But , he says when all the data is in , the actual wind speed will probably be calculated to be just 40 or 50 kilometres per hour less than what was predicted .
Do you put in a couple more nails in the roof or something ?"
It doesn ' t take into consideration the fact that cyclones can change rapidly or the fact that the size of a cyclone can affect its intensity , he says .
" We found that the oxygen ... did not agree with either a planetary composition or the oxygen - 16 rich composition ," Ireland says .
High levels of viral replication are likely to play a role in determining a patient ' s outcome by direct effects of the virus or by the inflammatory response to the virus , he says .
Resistance implies suboptimal suppression of replication and strategies to minimise it include ensuring adequate levels of the drug in the body by increasing the dose or giving it intravenously , or combining it with other antiviral drugs , he says .
It increases their reproductive opportunities , [ promotes ] sharing of resources like shelter or food , prevents desiccation by aggregating more in dry environments , etc ," he says .
" Much previous research has concentrated on either mechanisms or optimality at the expense of the other ."
L , T or X Dr Mia Stephens from the University of South Australia , a lecturer in linguistics , text , language and society , says the researchers reduced written languages to a set of basic shapes , including T , L and X .
Patients given transplants of bladders made from their own cells would not need to take drugs to prevent organ rejection , as do patients given transplants from either living or dead donors .
Gags or mags ?
They were told three days before the experiment whether they would get to watch their video or sit in a " neutral room " and thumb through a pile of magazines .
Their blood hormone levels were tested just before the video was turned on , four times during an hour of video watching or magazine reading and three times afterwards .
" Anticipation is a huge issue in areas that affect our psychology , whether it be anticipation of pleasurable activities or a bit of pain ," he says .
" You just have to look at the classic example of salivation before food , or expectation of sexual activity ...
He says the physiological changes shown in the study are probably linked to the so - called " flight or fight " response of nervous system arousal .
Harvey - Smith says the discovery is surprising as until now researchers had thought of masers as point - like objects or very small bright hotspots surrounded by fainter halos .
The 2004 Boxing Day tsunami destroyed the forest that once grew along this Indian coastline Mangroves and coastal forests offer little or no protection against tsunamis , says new research that debunks earlier findings .
Unique conditions at the Sea of Galilee , or Lake Kinneret as it ' s also known , may have caused a patch of ice to form near its western shore , says an oceanographer The New Testament says that Jesus walked on water , but a US professor says there could be a less miraculous explanation - he walked on a floating piece of ice .
" We leave to others the question of whether or not our research explains the biblical account ."
Nof says the chance of similar icy conditions in northern Israel today is " effectively zero , or about once in more than 10 , 000 years ".
But a treatment - based strategy would not significantly delay the onset of the disease or reduce the attack rate , the federal government - funded study found .
Mild or catastrophic ?
Authorities won ' t know whether a pandemic will be mild or catastrophic until it hits , McCaw says .
And the researchers call for greater surveillance of flu viruses already in people or in other mammals such as pigs or cats .
He says the fact that you get a different family tree depending on the virus gene used to construct it supports the idea that the 1918 virus was a result of virus recombination in animals like pigs , horses or cats .
Gibbs also says the virus may have been in humans 50 or 60 years before the pandemic , as suggested by studies showing some elderly people had immunity to the 1918 flu .
" There is a reasonable chance that the next pandemic may come from an influenza virus which is already in people or in pigs or in some other mammal ," he says .
" Previous fossils representing this evolutionary event have really been fish with a few land characteristics , or land vertebrates with a few residual fish characteristics ," says Dr Andrew Milner , of the Natural History Museum in London .
Shubin believes that Tiktaalik ' s size and shape indicates that it was fitted for living in small streams in a delta system , an environment that probably encouraged the fish to venture into shallow water or even make forays onto land in search of food or shelter from predators .
" The skeleton of Tiktaalik indicates that it could support its body under the force of gravity , whether in very shallow water or on land ," says co - author Professor Farish Jenkins of Harvard University .
But experts are still puzzled about what exactly happened and why animal studies gave no clue to this possible side - effect An investigation into a UK drug trial that left six men seriously ill has found no evidence to suggest there was anything wrong with the drug or the way the tests were run , a regulatory body says .
The regulatory agency will now seek expert , external advice for any future phase one trials , when drugs are first tested on humans , involving monoclonal antibodies or other novel molecules targeting the immune system .
The mixture is then diluted with a solvent like toluene , and is so fluid that it can be coated onto a surface by spinning , or even sprayed by an inkjet printer .
This refining requires conditions to be ultra - clean , as an intruding speck of dust or thimbleful of unwanted gas molecules can ruin the outcome .
The Japanese team ' s method doesn ' t need high vacuums , high temperatures or ultra - clean environments .
" But what you can learn from this is that complex systems ... sometimes behave in a very unexpected way , completely opposite to your intuition or expectation ."
The researchers found that the poorly known ant subfamily Leptanillinae is the most ancient , followed by two broad groups known as the poneroids , or predatory hunting ants , and the formicoids , the more familiar species such as pavement ants and carpenter ants .
For example , if most people in society are brave or conserve petrol , he explains , others benefit by evading military service or driving petrol - guzzling cars .
" Each group member equally profits from the public good , independent of his or her own contribution ."
Males redbacks only have one or two chances to mate before they are killed by the female , and mating is most successful when the female is a virgin .
In the experiment , the males could not see or touch the females or males around them .
She says this suggests that violent video games make players more likely to throw caution to the wind , whether it ' s with regard to their own health or any other type of risky behaviour .
Playing the violent game boosted young men ' s blood pressure , and appeared to have more of an effect on those who came from more violent homes or communities , the study says .
The pump uses a system of compressors and condensers and generates 18 megawatts , enough heat to warm 9000 flats or save 6000 tonnes of oil a year , he says .
Luxury cars or football ?
" I think the full larder [ of ] success of the excitement and danger of killing a giant bison or auroch in the Pleistocene was the equivalent of the testosterone art today ," says Guthrie , who is an emeritus professor in the Institute of Arctic Biology at the University of Alaska Fairbanks .
" If he finds that much cave art reflects teenage or preteen preoccupations , I am prepared to believe him ," he says .
This pampered pooch walks the same way as a greyhound or a labrador .
If your sex life isn ' t all smiles and fireworks , are you sick or just going through a rough patch ?
He says over the years there has been an attempt to define premature ejaculation according to the amount of time that lapsed , or the number of thrusts that occurred , before ejaculation occurred , but no agreement has ever been reached .
Morrow says the American Psychiatric Association defines it as persistent and recurrent ejaculation either before a man has intercourse , during attempts at penetration or very shortly after intercourse begins , in a way that is distressing to him or his partner .
And he says the definition relies on a clinician ' s judgement about whether the ejaculation is occurring too soon or not .
He says antidepressant drugs used to delay or inhibit ejaculation are being currently used in impotency clinics in Australia and sex therapists are also treating the condition using cognitive behavioural therapy .
They also have indirect evidence that either there are other adhesive molecules involved or that the polysaccharide is somehow modified to make it stickier , says Brun .
In other words , the amount of bacteria that fit onto an Australian 20 cent piece ( or a US quarter ) could withstand being pulled by a force of four to five tonnes , about the mass of an adult elephant .
" Light and shade should blend without lines or borders , in the manner of smoke ," he wrote .
On the contrary , in oil painting traces would have been masked by a delicate velatura or glaze ," Franck says .
Attempts to solve the enigma around her smile , described by the 16th century artist and writer Giorgio Vasari as " more divine than human ", have included theories that the noblewoman was happily pregnant , suffering from asthma , had facial paralysis or that the smile was the result of a compulsive gnashing of teeth .
For days , the Soviet leadership refused to admit , either to its own people or to the world , what had happened less than 100 kilometres north of a major city , Kiev , and near the huge Dniepr River that crisscrossed Ukraine and provided much of its water supply .
The explorers , who are expected to be joined by an Egyptian archaeologist and a geologist later in the year , hope to find stone blocks , or the steps of the ' pyramids '.
The whiff of parasites Sandeman says it is too early to say exactly which chemicals , or groups of chemicals Seb is sniffing out .
He envisages a farmer holding the sniffer device near the rear end of sheep or near poo .
" For example , when presented by a threatening stimulus they attack the stimulus or are ambivalent to it .
But there ' s evidence that some squid can adapt to their environment by learning to either temper their overconfidence or shake off their shyness .
He says mating in the squid world is forceful on the part of the male but females play a role in choosing to associate with prospective mates or in attempting to rebuff unwanted advances .
An analysis of the top 43 referring sites to the dermatology service revealed that 21 % were pornographic or fetish sites .
It ' s been an open question as to why some people see bright light , feel detached from their bodies or have other extraordinary sensations when they are close to dying or believe they might die .
People may , for example , feel paralysed when they first wake up , or have visual or auditory hallucinations as they fall asleep or awaken .
And heightened activity in this nerve is sure to be part of the body ' s " fight - or - flight " response to danger .
For example , maintaining the integrity of their coat may protect against invasion by parasites , bacteria or grass seeds .
This new type of brain - machine interface could replace joysticks in online gaming or be used as a communication tool for pople who cannot speak or sign A computerised keyboard that translates electrical impulses from brainwave signals into letters and words could be available in the next five years , German researchers say .
But in the long term , such a brain - machine interface could replace the joystick in electronic gaming or serve as a communication tool for people unable to speak or sign .
For now , M & uuml ; ller and his colleagues are still somewhat constrained by the conventional electrode cap , which looks like a swimmer ' s cap embedded with 64 or 128 contact points and a web of wires leading to a computer .
Imagine moving your hand During calibration with the Berlin group ' s technology , the person imagines moving his left or right hand .
Once the person is in sync with the computer , he can imagine moving his hands or feet or rotating an object to trigger an action on the screen .
Drug resistance could make these infections hard to treat , lengthen bouts of diarrhoea and increase risk of serious or fatal illness .
Those tested were from Queensland , South Australia , Victoria , Tasmania and Western Australia , states that require reporting of patients infected with the bacteria , and were hospitalised with gastroenteritis or remained in the community .
Reasons could include contact with an infected person or eating meat from an animal with the resistant bacteria , Patel says .
In Australia causes could include medical treatment with the antibiotics , eating imported contaminated food or acquiring resistance in hospital .
" The lakes are like a set of beads on a string , where the lakes are the beads connected by a string or river of water ," says Wingham .
He says until recently most people believed the illness only affects older teenagers or adults but the diagnosis is now being applied to young children , particularly in the US .
He says children as young as two who are " tricky to handle , overactive or difficult in some way " are being diagnosed with bipolar disorder .
"[ And books for children ] look for all the world like versions Little Red Riding Hood or Cinderella or whatever ," he says .
Healy says while a child might be hard to handle because they ' ve moved house or school , because they ' ve been bullied at day - care or because their parents aren ' t getting on it is " easier to locate to the problem in the child ".
But not everyone agrees this is a bad thing Most of the experts who wrote the manual widely used to diagnose mental illness have had financial ties to drug makers such as research funding or stock holdings , US researchers report .
The relationships included speaking or consulting fees , ownership of company stock , payment for gifts and travel and funding for research .
The finding adds to a growing body of evidence that horses used for recreation or sport are at risk of health problems .
This usually happens between the withers and the loin , or in the region that involves the 10th - 18th vertebrae .
For example , ' cold back ' [ when a horse stiffens its back or negatively reacts after bearing weight ], problems with saddling , girthing and mounting the horse may be an indication that there are problems with the saddle or the riding technique ."
Electromagnetic radiation from mobile phones may affect how fast you brake or turn while driving Electromagnetic radiation from your mobile phone may impair your ability to make snap decisions , say when driving a car , an Australian study shows .
" If you are driving a car and somebody runs out in front you , your simple reaction time is the time it takes to brake , while your choice reaction time could be the time it takes to decide between braking , turning left , turning right or hooting the horn to avoid the collision ," he says .
The study ' s 120 volunteers received either active or ' sham ' radiation emissions for 30 minutes before swapping for a further 30 minutes .
" Erosion doesn ' t really lower mountains very much because typically the erosion occurs at the same rate or less than the rate of plate convergence ," says Pysklywec , who has developed a computer model to simulate what happens .
CSIRO licensed a gene from US biotechnology company Monsanto that produced a toxin from the bacteria Bacillus thuringiensis or Bt .
" The main issue was insecticide could contaminate land , air and water so this is safer for the environment and everyone as it only kills the moth , without harming other helpful insects , creatures or humans ."
Former Clunies Ross award winner , joint winner of the 2005 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine Professor Barry Marshall , who discovered that the bacteria Helicobacter pylori , rather than stress , causes stomach ulcers , was guest speaker at the awards ceremony .
Choosing the racy red shoes over the sensible loafers relates to how your brain assigns values to items or goods Can ' t choose between the racy red shoes and the sensible loafers ?
Researchers at Harvard Medical School in Boston have identified neurones that seem to play a role in how a person selects different items or goods .
Scientists have known that cells in different parts of the brain react to attributes such as colour , taste or quantity .
Some neurones would be highly active when the monkeys selected three drops of grape juice , for example , or 10 drops of apple juice .
Other neurones encoded the value of only the orange juice or grape juice .
" A concrete possibility is that various choice deficits may result from an impaired or dysfunctional activity of this population [ of neurones ], though this hypothesis remains to be tested ," says Padoa - Schioppa .
The Ladybag , aimed at young professional women , could put an end to leaving the house without the mobile phone , house keys or wallet .
" Changing the ball angle by attempting to return a cross - court shot down the line , or returning a down - the - line shot cross court is asking for lateral problems ," he says .
Should they go for a fast shot , which is harder to hit but more prone to error , or a slower shot , which is likely to be more accurate but easier to return ?
Brody says adding spin to a fast shot can open the angular window of acceptance , because the spin acts like a downward , or Magnus force , helping gravity pull the ball onto the court .
Most of the energy released by this matter as it gets close to the black hole ' s point of no return , or event horizon , shows up in the form of high - energy jets , which spew forth from magnetised discs of gas .
These bubbles can measure hundreds or even thousands of light - years across .
At the time people thought he was " frothing at the mouth or somehow abnormal ", he says .
" But whether you view that as good or bad depends on which side of the fence you ' re sitting on ."
" When considering the current scientific standing with respect to Sun signs , it becomes clear that there is little or no truth in [ them ]," says Dr Peter Hartmann , who led the study in the May issue of the journal Personality and Individual Differences .
" The essence here is that there is a difference in determining whether a result is significant , hence whether it is a true effect , or just random occurrence , and then whether this significant effect is relevant and of any interest ."
Granito and colleagues found that adding these two gut bacteria to black beans , or Phaseolus vulgaris , before cooking makes them even less likely to cause flatulence .
And some kind of government or police force should be considered .
For instance , Lin says we need a fair process for commercialising or claiming property in space to avoid what he calls the kind of " chaotic land - grab " that occurred with internet domain names .
" Are reasons such as for adventure , wanderlust or ' backing up the biosphere ' good enough to justify our exploration of space ?"
This is a departure from an earlier theory that holds that the massive planets ' tilts , or obliquities , were caused by collisions with Earth - sized space rocks during the early period of the solar system .
Drug companies have been working on a male pill or injection to inhibit sperm production and give couples a greater choice of family planning methods .
The three main male contraceptive methods - the condom , withdrawal and vasectomy - are regarded by many as insufficiently reliable or difficult to reverse .
The male pill uses the hormone androgen , or a mixture of androgen and progestogen , to suppress sperm production to zero or negligible levels .
FOE wants a public education campaign on nanotechnology , public meetings and consensus conferences or other processes to involve a broader range of the public .
NASA wants to fly the shuttle another 16 or 17 more times to complete construction of the International Space Station and possibly service the Hubble Space Telescope before the fleet is retired in 2010 .
They tested this by quizzing people about their attitudes to voluntary euthanasia and abortion before and after either the equivalent of about two cups of coffee or a placebo .
Resting your forearms on a soft support as you type seems to reduce your chance of pain in the neck , shoulders , arm , wrist or hand Office workers who use a simple forearm support might avoid the pain that can come with long days at the computer , new research suggests .
In a year - long study of 182 workers at a call centre , researchers found that those who received forearm supports for their desks were less likely to suffer pain in the neck , shoulders , arm , wrist or hand .
They were also less likely to be diagnosed with a musculoskeletal injury in the neck or shoulders , according to findings published in the latest issue of the journal Occupational and Environmental Medicine .
Over the next year , Rempel ' s team found workers who used a forearm support were half as likely as those who received only ergonomics training to be diagnosed with a neck or shoulder injury .
The boss could be watching Bosses are considering putting specific provisions in employment contracts that could regulate what you put in your private blog or even prevent you from blogging at all , according to a new book .
Co - author Damien O ' Brien from the Queensland University of Technology law faculty says some workplaces have specific policies against blogging in the office but " it can get a bit blurred whether [ it ' s ] in the workplace or at home ".
He says concerns about blogging are related to issues like disclosure of confidential information or defamation of bosses , clients or colleagues , which originally focused on email .
" It ' s pretty hard to draw up a contract that says you can ' t blog at home privately and have that upheld unless the person was distributing confidential information or defaming or harassing somebody , which would be covered by other provisions of the contract ."
She questioned 74 children aged between three and eight , half with a current or past imaginary friend .
Newman says while some imaginary friends function as sort of " super peers " or the " perfect playmate " they can also be a sign of emotional disturbance .
" There are some cases in which children have those companions because they might be lonely , distressed or unable to put into words things that are concerning them ," she says .
" Some friends ... can be quite persecutory or frightening , they might torment the child , or express doubts , tell them they ' re stupid or bad ."
Newman says while imaginary friends are quite common in younger ages , they are more likely to be associated with emotional or family problems in children over the age of about seven .
In rare cases some adults develop what ' s known as Doppelganger syndrome , which occurs when they believe a twin or invisible friend accompanies them .
Current manufacturing techniques involve arranging nanoparticles , nanotubes , or nanowires on surfaces using expensive , high - temperature methods .
Four different solutions went into the battery component : a negatively charged polymer , a positively charged polymer , negatively charged viruses , and charged particles , or ions , of cobalt .
The World Conservation Union , or IUCN , says more than 16 , 000 species of animals and plants are at risk of disappearing , including one in four mammals and one in eight birds .
The gamma rays or the lightning ?
Holwell travelled to Queensland hoping to study sexual cannibalism in praying mantises , or mantids .
" Their genitalia point in one direction or the other , which is a very unusual phenomenon ," says Howell .
They say showing people suddenly awakening after years in a coma with no physical or mental problems , or depicting long - term comatose patients peacefully ' sleeping ' with perfect grooming and a healthy tan , minus any feeding tubes or loss of muscle tone , is unrealistic .
But that would be one in 10 , 000 or even more .
But the acidity of onions or tomatoes does not change with the cooking method .
So rather than take direct measurements , scientists use proxies , or markers , of the planet ' s rotational period .
By analysing data collected by Cassini they found a clear period in the planet ' s magnetic field that they suggest indicates a day lasts 10 hours , 47 minutes and 6 seconds , give or take 40 seconds .
China was taking steps to make registration mandatory on millions of blog sites and BBSs , or sites where internet users can converse online , Cai said .
The number of search engine users had reached 97 million , or about 87 % of all internet users , the report said .
Rules at the time also required all Chinese internet cafes to register web surfers and not allow them to download or upload any content onto or from personal devices .
" You don ' t want to put it in the wrong spot or you ' ll be throwing your money away ."
The tracks included raga , a type of Indian music ; slow and fast classical music ; techno ; rap ; and dodecaphonic , or 12 - tone music that lacks a traditional rhythmic , harmonic and melodic structure .
The researchers then measured their heart rate , breathing , blood pressure and other indicators of arousal or relaxation .
In musicians , the silent interval also reduced activity of the sympathetic nervous system , which triggers the ' fight or flight ' response .
Focus then release This generally requires a person to focus his or her attention on something and then release it .
" Whenever you get a lot of energy such as a lightning bolt , or an aurora caused by the winds of the Sun , this generates plasma ," he says .
Flaws in a digital image , caused by dust on the optics or natural variation between pixels , can be used to say whether a particular camera took a particular image A new technique matches a digital image to the camera that snapped it , scientists say , just like matching a bullet to the gun that fired it .
" When a suspect is caught with images on the computer and the suspect has a digital camera in possession , the standard defence is that the images are computer - generated or downloaded from the internet ," says Dr Jessica Fridrich , an associate professor of electrical and computer engineering at the State University of New York in Binghamton .
In laboratory experiments , Fridrich and her team matched several thousand different images to the correct camera without a single misclassification , even when images were compressed or resized .
The trick allows them to dive for food in the safer mid - water zone , rather than scavenge at the surface or cling to submerged objects like most other air - breathing aquatic insects , say the researchers .
They found that the insect uses a strategy much like a diver with a buoyancy vest to control the depth at which he or she hovers in the water .
Brennan tested the ability of 72 people , including musicians and non - musicians , to recognise musical themes from popular TV shows , such as Friends , Law and Order and M * A * S * H . They were required to differentiate between the original theme and a transposed version where pitch , tempo , or both pitch and tempo had been changed .
Differences between musicians and non - musicians Brennan found both musicians and non - musicians could identify the original theme when it was compared with a version where just the pitch or tempo was changed .
But musicians did much better at identifying the original theme compared to a version where both pitch and tempo had been changed proportionally , or had been moved up and down by exactly the same degree .
Are musicians born or made ?
But the new study found most dolphins recognise names , their signature whistles , even when emitted without inflection or other vocal cues .
The scientists already knew that dolphins responded to whistles , but wondered if something in the actual voice of the whistling dolphin is making the identity clear , or if the name itself is enough for recognition .
" You want them to be long in length to twist them together to make thread or yarn ," says Sotzing .
Lots of goo The first step is to melt or dissolve the precursor polymer into a gooey solution .
A fabric woven with the polymer fibres could be used , for example , in t - shirts bearing video advertisements or jackets that double as computers .
They can find a distraction - such as meditation , exercise or some other activity - to take the focus off the anticipated event .
For example , they could choose between having a shock at 90 % of their maximum pain tolerance delivered in the next 3 seconds , or one at 60 % intensity in 27 seconds .
It found there are more vitamins and minerals , including calcium , vitamin C and folic acid , in 30 grams of cooked spinach , broccoli or a garden salad than in a shot of wheatgrass juice .
The man with the child in this eyes The researchers found the women were uncannily accurate in guessing which men liked children and which men were less interested or indifferent to kids .
Men may despair about this pigeon - holing , just as women have long despaired about men who stereotype females by placing them into such categories as Mother or Sex Bomb .
But the risk is that a woman may write them off respectively , as a long - term or a short - term mating prospect .
Flying robots , like this fictional robotic dragonfly , could bypass radar to deliver explosives or bioweapons , experts say It may sound like science fiction , but flying robots could make suicide bombers and hijackers redundant , experts say .
According to Gauthier , " ultra - light aircraft , powered hang gliders or powered paragliders have also been purchased by terrorist groups to circumvent ground - based countermeasures ".
" While billions have been spent on ballistic missile defense , little attention has been given to the more imminent threat posed by unmanned air vehicles in the hands of terrorists or rogue states ," writes Hambling .
Easy to buy or make Remote - control planes are not hard to get hold of , according to Jean - Christian Delessert , who runs a specialist model aeroplane shop near Geneva .
" The main concern that researchers will have is that , compared to Canada or European countries , we still do not use much of our wealth to create a strategic infrastructure in science , technology and education ," he says .
The Blitzkrieg , or overkill theory , says human hunters devastated most large mammal species and drove some to extinction .
While some want to relieve boredom by creating havoc and excitement , other arsonists crave recognition or attention , the researchers say .
Some light fires out of anger or protest while others believe they are being altruistic by clearing what they see as dangerous fuel - loads .
Knowing that some people light fires just so they can treated as a hero if they report the fire or put it out is also useful , especially for fire services screening new members , says Willis .
" Had we gotten these surprising results based on a single gene , we ' d have been pretty skeptical , but each of the genes we analysed either firmly supported the grouping of kipunji with baboons or failed to support a close relationship between kipunji and other mangabeys ," Olson says .
Six women who took RU486 , also known as Mifeprex or mifepristone , have died since 2000 .
Ten other deadly infections have been reported in women who had given birth or who had miscarriages .
Dr James McGregor , a gynaecologist from the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center , urged officials to " reduce or eliminate " Mifeprex use .
It is not immediately clear what action the FDA might take regarding RU486 or if officials would suggest use of antibiotics to prevent infection .
Following the debris trail The astronomers are hoping that by measuring the brightness of the extent of the debris trail , which can ' t be see in visible light , they can find out whether most of the comet vaporises from evaporating ice , the house - sized chunks seen in recent Hubble Space Telescope images , or by way of meteor - sized debris seen in the Spitzer images .
" We suspect that every comet goes through an episode like this ," says Kelley of those comets that don ' t die by plunging into the Sun or into a planet .
Women who have multiple roles are less likely than homemakers , single mothers or childless women to report poor health or to be obese in middle age .
But it was not clear whether they were working and having children because they were healthy , or whether they were healthy because they were combining the two .
" To them , [ the graveyards are as valuable as ] a museum collection or a photo album .
But there is no domestic or overseas system to scrutinise Chinese researchers ' work , Fan says .
He says the new laws will let people tape their favourite TV show or download music onto their MP3 players .
Suddendorp says some species that appear to be planning for the futures , say by building nests or hoarding food , are actually using instinctive behaviour or associative learning .
" We can detect if the truck ' s driving off the road or if there ' s a potential collision .
There , it ' s filtered and refined and the statistics are reported to mining management , which can then use the information to upgrade safety or predict the impact of any planned changes .
" It doesn ' t really matter whether it ' s 10 parts per billion or whatever ," says Hughes , a former toxics campaigner .
SNPs contain clues about why some people are susceptible to diseases like cancer or malaria , the best way to diagnose and treat them and how they will respond to drugs .
This reignites the debate about whether the remains of the small hominid from the Indonesian island of Flores is really H . sapiens or a dwarf version of H . erectus that evolved after becoming isolated on the island , as was originally suggested .
The report released this week by Friends of the Earth ( FOE ), documents 116 products it says contain nanoparticles , a large number of which are available to Australians either in stores or online .
The Nanomaterials , sunscreens and cosmetics : small ingredients , big risks report is based on publicly available information from manufacturers of the products or ingredients , or retailers , says Miller .
The Therapeutic Goods Administration ( TGA ), which regulates sunscreens in Australia , says the weight of current evidence is that nanoparticles used in sunscreens stay on the surface or in the outer dead layer of the skin .
One challenge has been the phenomenon of edge localised modes , or ELMs , sudden fluxes or eddies in the outer edge of the plasma that erode the reaction chamber ' s inner wall .
Current proposals include using ground - based lasers to put objects off orbit and speed the rate of their burn - up , sending out ' space tugs ' as roving garbage collectors or using tethers to rope and haul in bits of space debris .
Preserving items like these could provide evidence of a nation ' s presence in space or help reconstruct a history of space exploration , she says .
In response , the scarecrow makes loud noises or powerful bursts of water to scare the birds away .
But most methods don ' t work well , are expensive or loud .
Blasting the birds The device can also blast loud sounds , such as a shotgun noise or the cry of a predatory hawk , through nearby speakers .
And because it ' s internet - enabled , the scarecrow can send a text message to a mobile phone or an email to a computer alerting the farmer of threats .
Dr Dong Chen , a research scientist with CSIRO Manufacturing and Infrastructure Technology , who wasn ' t involved in the design , says it makes sense to use roof tiles , or any exposed parts of a house , for solar heating .
Their study , of nearly 2 , 000 couples undergoing fertility treatment , found that pregnancy attempts were 70 % more likely to fail when the man was age 40 or older than if he were younger than 30 , regardless of his wife ' s age .
And while past studies have suggested that older men are less likely to father children , the extent to which this was related to biological changes or to decreased sexual activity has been unclear .
RNA , or ribonucleic acid , is a single - strand molecule that plays a key role in making proteins in animals by transferring and translating genetic information encoded in DNA .
That ' s why when we look left or right , our ears slightly withdraw on both sides .
Ter Meulen and team made these determinations after conducting an EEG , or brain wave test , on a 43 - year - old woman who lost consciousness and experienced rhythmic bursts of ear movement .
Noisy ears Another team of researchers analysed noises made by the inner ear that are like echoes that occur in response to clicks , such as pencil tapping , or distortion , such as a bad radio signal .
Dr Dennis McFadden , a professor of psychology at the University of Texas at Austin , and his colleagues , measured the strength of these otoacoustic emissions , or ear - produced sounds , in rhesus monkeys and spotted hyenas .
Widespread infection Up to 35 % of the apes in some communities were infected with SIV and different varieties or " clades " of the virus were found .
" We know that you don ' t get it from petting a chimp , or from a toilet seat , just like you can ' t get HIV from a toilet seat ," she says .
Spread via blood , sexual contact and from mother to child during birth or breast - feeding , there is no vaccine against HIV although drug cocktails can help control it .
Should the tropics move another two or three degrees poleward the Sahara Desert could shift perhaps several hundred kilometres towards the poles , the researchers say The tropical regions of the world have been expanding since 1979 , say US climatologists , who say it is unclear whether the phenomenon is caused by global warming .
After analysing satellite temperature data collected between 1979 and 2005 , researchers estimate that the tropics has expanded by two degrees of latitude , or 225 kilometres during that period .
Jet streams play a key role Meteorologists generally consider that the tropics lies between 30 & deg ; N and 30 & deg ; S . Reichler and team found that in both hemispheres at these mid - latitudes , the lower atmosphere , or troposphere , has became warmer compared to other latitudes in the past 26 years , while the stratosphere has become cooler .
Should the tropics " move another two or three degrees poleward in this century ," says Wallace , " very dry areas such as the Sahara Desert could nudge farther toward the pole , perhaps by a few hundred miles ."
Harry Potter ' s cloak or The Invisible Man of films and fiction might be a bit harder to emulate , however , because the thing to be made invisible will have to be encased in a thick shell of metamaterials .
" All light or other electromagnetic waves are swept around the area , guided by the metamaterial to emerge on the other side as if they had passed through an empty volume of space ."
The light , or microwaves , or radar would travel along the threads of the cloth , ending up behind the object without having touched it .
Such materials could provide super - light electronics in aircraft or cars , or highly efficient lenses .
Also , the invisibility would work both ways - a person hidden from the visible light spectrum would have to use infrared or sonar or microwaves to see out , he says .
" The propagation of [ light ] waves through dispersive media often leads to surprising or counterintuitive behaviour ," report Dolling and colleagues , referring to dispersion as the ability of a material to separate light into different wavelengths , or colours .
The fungi also produce colourful conidia , or asexual spores , which tend to form in the morning and germinate in the afternoon and evening .
Ishii says the environment in which a body lies , rather than the biochemistry of the individual or the manner of death , tends to dictate how much or how little fungi will colonise a cadaver .
" I am surprised that fungus is a potential tool for determining post mortem intervals in cadavers without infestation of dipteran larvae and / or beetles ," Chigusa says .
The last thing they expected to find at the end of the Age of Dinosaurs was a dramatically flat - headed pachycerphalosaurs , or pachy .
Without so much as a nod of the head or the waving of a wand , hogwartsia has reversed the pachy family tree .
They then looked at baseline body mass index , level of physical activity reported and compared baseline levels of two proteins : insulin - like growth factor binding protein - 3 , or IGFBP - 3 , and insulin - like growth factor - 1 , or IGF - 1 .
For the physically inactive , there was no association between IGF - 1 or IGFBP - 3 and colon cancer survival .
It could also navigate like a snake through the rubble of a disaster zone , or feel around inside the dark crevasses of other planets .
But in the unpredictable , unstructured environment of a disaster zone or the surface of a distant planet , a more flexible robot is needed .
" The OctArms are not precise or positional , but they are compliant and flexible and can conform to crazy shapes and do some things that traditional robots can ' t ," says Shane Farritor , associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University of Nebraska - Lincoln .
Chances are , you ' ll feel good about life - defining events when you look back on them When we remember events that helped to shape our identity , such as a break - up or marriage , we tend to downplay the fear , anger or other negative emotions and remember more of the positive ones , a new study indicates .
" Mental health is maintained or improved by people ' s attempts to make sense of their life experiences ," Conway says .
For their research , Conway and Wood investigated people ' s emotional memories for self - defining events , which they described as emotionally complex events that contribute to a person ' s sense of identity or overall life story .
Based on the students ' responses , Conway and Wood conclude that a person ' s perception of the impact of an event is a good marker for meaning making , that is the process that results in an individual integrating an event with his or her positive sense of identity .
Happiness and pride Conway and Wood found that when the study participants reflected on negative events , such as conflict with bosses or teachers , death , or physical or sexual assault , they reported that they currently felt less negative emotions , like anger and disgust , and more happiness and pride than they had felt at the time of the event .
And when the students reflected on positive events , like a dating relationship or marriage , recreation , or attaining a personal goal , they reported feeling just as happy as they had felt at the time of the event , as well as similarly intense feelings of love and pride .
" If you scale that up to a whole bunch of dodgem cars , or particles , or locusts then as you start to add more and more to the arena , or environment , you suddenly get to a number where they all start moving in the same direction together ."
A New Zealand PhD student has found a simple way of identifying whether cell samples collected for DNA testing come from the skin , mouth or vagina .
The technique French has developed involves staining epithelial cells , the outer layer of body surfaces and organs , which are easily shed or secreted .
" I ' ve been involved in cases where we ' ve been unable to scientifically prove that an object ... has been used to violate someone in a sexual assault or whether it was just touched by the alleged victim ," she says .
" Gene banks can be affected by shutdowns , natural disasters , wars or simply a lack of money ," Riis - Johansen says .
But Moore thinks it also tells us that technology doesn ' t protect us from evolutionary selection pressures , like predators or other environmental factors that affect our survival .
Saturn ' s moon Enceladus might have rolled or rotated itself to place an area of low density at the south pole .
This illustrates the moon ' s interior , with warm , low - density material rising to the surface ( yellow ) from within or from its rocky core ( red ) Millions of years ago , Saturn ' s moon Enceladus may have somersaulted in space , creating an ice - spewing hot spot on the moon ' s south pole , scientists suggest .
Researchers at CSIRO and the Bureau of Meteorology analysed climate change models and predicted by 2050 there would be a 5 - 12 % increase in the number of days with a high , very high or extreme fire danger .
Major fires , those that burn 1000 hectares or more , are only a minor proportion of the total number of fires but account for 95 % of the area burned , he says .
The study looked at 29 countries that were ranked as technologically advanced , proficient , developing or lagging .
These countries could , for example , " provide their people with drug therapies that preferentially attack specific tumors or pathogens ... [ and ] vastly improved medical diagnostic and surgical procedures ".
The scientifically lagging countries - Fiji , the Dominican Republic , Georgia , Nepal , Pakistan , Egypt , Iran , Jordan , Kenya , Cameroon and Chad - " are burdened by problem - plagued political systems , a lack or resources or infrastructure , and class disparities ," the study says .
" When such countries have the will to make changes ... they can improve the lives of their citizens ," the study adds , citing examples such as cheap solar energy for remote or portable applications , ways to purify water that won ' t require major infrastructure , and rural wireless communications .
But what was interesting was that the coastline , where Australia would have fitted together with Antarctica , took a ' bite ' out of the concentric rings or shock waves , around the crater .
He thinks the meteorite that caused the crater could have hit 250 million years ago , triggering a process that culminated in the break up of Gondwana 100 or so million years later .
But because such figs do not produce seeds , they cannot reproduce unless people propagate them , perhaps by planting shoots or branches .
The odd layout could be the result of colossal cannibalistic galactic collisions or intergalactic ' tides ', say the researchers online on the journal Science .
But he says it ' s impossible to say whether the author , John of Patmos , or St John the Apostle , suffered from schizophrenia or delusional thinking .
The paper , published today in the journal Nature , also fuels an ongoing controversy about whether the formations were made by living things or chemical processes .
The wide range of stromatolites reported in Nature indicates they are actually " self - organising structures of largely physico - chemical origin ", he says , like sand dunes or crystal formations .
" These are the lowest - mass brown dwarfs or really big giant planets , especially when they ' re young ," he says .
Other researchers do not use the term ' planet ' to describe any satellites that might be formed around a planemo , referring to these as moons or moonlets .
Professor Stephen Clarke , a researcher at Swinburne University says Australia has a 180 to one , or 0 . 6 %, chance of winning the final .
" This is not bad and nowhere near as small as the chance of being killed in a terrorist attack or winning [ the lottery ]," he says .
" It ' s slightly more than flipping eight heads in a row ( 1 in 256 ) or tossing three sixes with three dice ( 1 in 216 )."
The researchers asked 2399 people to imagine themselves as a patient , a doctor treating a patient , a medical director creating patient guidelines , or a parent making a decision for a child .
In the second , participants were asked to decide on whether or not to treat a slow - growing cancer with chemotherapy .
A total of 68 % of those taking the physician or medical director role opted for chemotherapy , compared to 60 % of those in the patient role .
" We haven ' t investigated the underlying mechanisms of the sex difference yet , but they usually involve gonadal [ reproductive gland ] hormones , such as oestrogen , progesterone and testosterone , either during development or in adulthood ," says Professor Jeffrey Mogil , one of the researchers .
" I think pain and itch are wired up in the brain as opposites , in a sense , such that inheriting particular forms of pain / itch - relevant genes would simultaneously make you more sensitive to pain and less sensitive to itch , or vice versa ," he speculates .
" Because women have more nerve receptors , they may experience pain more powerfully than men , requiring different surgical techniques , treatments or medicine dosages to help manage their pain and make them feel comfortable ," Wilhelmi says .
It could be that women are more sensitive than men to both pain and itch , or that women have evolved some level of pain tolerance , perhaps due to giving birth .
Mogil hopes future research will show which genes turn the urge to itch up or down , how the proteins made by those genes work , and how the same genes may be linked to pain sensitivity .
Isisfordia was a small crocodile - only a metre long , weighing around 3 or 4 kilograms A new fossil from the Age of the Dinosaurs suggests modern crocodiles first evolved in Gondwana , says an international team of palaeontologists .
" Up until now , the kinds of creatures that seemed to be the ancestors , or close to the ancestors , of all modern crocodiles have come from places like Belgium , from England , from the USA ," says team member Dr Paul Willis .
A small croc Isisfordia was a small crocodile , only a metre long , weighing around 3 or 4 kilograms , says Willis .
" But as we ' re finding more fossils in the Gondwanan continents it appears that a lot of groups that we previously thought originated in the northern hemisphere - or in Laurasia - actually have older representatives here in the southern continents , and in this case in Australia ."
But after four or five pulsars had been found , Hamilton says the ' little green men ' theory didn ' t hold up anymore .
And today there are about five or six hundred known pulsars .
Restricting an infant ' s diet without a clinical diagnosis of food allergy could place him or her at risk , researchers say Parents are more likely to think their infant is allergic to certain foods than is actually the case , according to a new UK study .
Dr Taraneh Dean of the University of Portsmouth and her colleagues found that more than half ( 54 %) of a group of one - year - olds were avoiding some foods because their parents perceived them to have had reactions to items such as cow ' s milk , wheat , eggs or additives .
Skin prick testing found just 2 % of the children had sensitivity to milk , egg , fish , peanut , sesame or wheat .
A robot ' s " hands " could be coated with the sensor film and the signals received could be used to guide the robot in performing surgery , say the researchers , in the same way that surgeons now use their sense of touch to find tumors or gallstones .
Their new film is made of alternating layers of gold and semiconducting cadmium - sulfur nanoparticles separated by nonconducting , or dielectric , films .
Nanoparticles are extremely tiny , a nanometer , or a billionth of a metre , or less in diameter .
The researchers don ' t know whether the changes are apparent on a conscious or subconscious level , since they occur gradually over time and do not dramatically alter appearance .
Conventional robotic wall climbers typically employ more superhero - like methods : sticky feet , suction cups , claws , or magnets .
Suction cups or sticky feet , for example , work best on smooth surfaces such as glass or marble , but not so well on brick .
By linking two triangular - shaped modules with a hinged arm , the researchers were able to make the City Climber manoeuver around 90 degree angle corners and transition from a wall to a roof , all with the strength to pull or carry a payload four times its weight .
Co - author Fred Stevens of the university ' s College of Pharmacy , says it ' s feasible to make pills containing concentrated doses of xanthohumol or to bump up the level of the chemical in hops .
The authors said they could not determine whether it was caffeine or another ingredient in coffee which had the protective effect .
" Even if coffee is protective , the primary approach to reduction of alcoholic cirrhosis is avoidance or cessation of heavy alcohol drinking ," they say .
Millions of people use SSRIs ( selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ), including Pfizer ' s Zoloft , GlaxoSmithKline ' s Paxil and the first drug of this type , Eli Lilly ' s Prozac , or fluoxetine .
Study does not prove benefit In a commentary on the new study , Associate Professor Bernhard Baune and Professor Philippa Hay of James Cook University in Australia say the type of study performed by Lucinio and colleagues cannot prove for certain " whether antidepressants do harm or good at a population level ."
The information could help shed light on the communication styles of other equines , such as donkeys and zebras , and even improve how veterinarians , behaviourists , breeders or other animal handlers relate to horses .
Using high - resolution aircraft flight data and routine weather balloon data , they looked at " persistent " contrails : wakes that remained for an hour or more after the aircraft had flown over .
ANSTO says the radiation released from its site was well within regulatory limits and will not affect the health of workers or the community The operator of Australia ' s only nuclear reactor has rejected claims that radioactivity released from its site raises safety concerns .
Called Gansus yumenensis , the pigeon - sized bird probably resembled a tern or a loon ( web - footed fish - eating birds ), the researchers say .
But , he adds , " there was no evidence that their sexual desire was beyond that of high normal or that they are hypersexual ."
Long awaited success or major setback ?
" The human nose is not especially well suited for odour recognition , as compared to the noses of dogs or rats ," says Professor & Oacute ; scar Ruiz , who is working on the project .
Ruiz , from the Department of Electronics at the University of Barcelona , Spain , says " There are some groups in the world that have trained dogs to diagnose some diseases like melanoma or prostate cancer in urine ."
" Initially we expect that the devices will work with body fluids like urine or blood ."
The technology could be used to find missing children , search for lost hikers , or survey a fire zone , says Commander Sid Heal , head of the Technology Exploration Project of the Los Angeles County Sheriff ' s Department .
" Humans , in contrast , get stressed out about many things , often things that are of little significance in our lives or are completely abstract threats ," she says .
" What we will store on Svalbard is not just one or two million seed samples and germ plasm , but the work of countless generations of farmers for thousands of years ," Fowler says .
" In 100 or 200 years the Norwegian government of today may not be remembered for anything else than building the vault on Svalbard .
Many on the research team are employees of deCODE Genetics and / or have stock or equity interests in the company .
Players were each given US $ 20 for taking part , but earned an additional bounty of $ 10 per game if they won , either by amassing the most wealth or by defeating their opponent .
Before the game , each player was asked to rank himself or herself , predicting how he or she would fare against the 199 others .
In the game , each player was given a virtual treasure chest of US $ 100 million , which they could spend on upgrading their military , investing in industrial infrastructure or keep in reserve as cash .
But the question is when " positive illusions " become over - confidence - and the impact that this can have in modern - day society , on a president or a prime minister who believes that a war , despite its risks , can be won quickly and easily .
Whether they settled along the coasts of North America , Europe or Australia , humans have always been reducing the biodiversity of estuaries and coastal seas , say researchers publishing in today ' s issue of the journal Science .
By studying modern Nassarius shells from Mediterranean beaches , they also determined that shells with single holes in the centre are rare in nature and that Skhul and Djebbana inhabitants must have purposely perforated or deliberately picked out such shells , arguably for symbolic use .
In hunter - gatherer societies , that maturity was probably achieved during a person ' s late teens or early twenties , he says .
A computer that can decipher your emotions could help online advertisers target you at times when you ' re most likey to be receptive to their message Your computer may soon be able to tell what you ' re thinking by picking up on expressions like a raised eyebrow , a nod of the head or an angry glare , scientists say .
Robinson hopes to get more data to determine whether someone is bored , interested , confused , or agrees or disagrees .
" Our research could enable Web sites to tailor advertising or products to your mood ," Robinson says .
It could also be useful in online teaching to show whether someone understands what is being explained and in improving road safety by determining if a driver is confused , bored or tired .
Unlike episodic and hacking explosive volcanoes like Mount St Helens or Mount Pinatubo , flood basalts literally pour lava out onto the Earth ' s surface in often vastly greater quantities and over far longer periods , perhaps many hundreds of thousands of years , according to some geologists .
A Web site where the colours hurt your eyes , the music offends your ears or has too much information is probably too cluttered and does not give a positive flow of ch ' i ," says Vikram Narayan , a Mumbai - based feng shui practitioner .
" I can ' t say for definite that the positive results are due to vaastu or due to increased marketing , but I hope that vaastu has helped ."
The conditions that determine whether a male will grow up gay may be present before birth , research suggests The last male child in a family of many boys is more likely to be gay than a boy who is born first or has fewer brothers , according to new research .
Adopted or step brothers don ' t appear to have an effect .
The researchers didn ' t investigate the mechanism at play , but Bogaert says his study indicates that biological , rather than social or child - rearing factors , are at play .
" These results support a prenatal origin to sexual orientation development in men and indicate that the fraternal birth order effect is probably the result of a maternal " memory " for male gestations or births ," he says .
Good vibrations The first is a staircase that will contain hydraulic or piezoelectric technology in the risers .
The current will be stored in a battery , which can be used to provide energy for lighting or electronic devices .
The resonance will either move a magnet relative to a coil or put stress on a crystalline structure inside a generator to produce a current .
In " PeaceMaker ," players take the role of either the Israeli prime minister or the Palestinian president and try their hand at situations ranging from diplomatic talks to responding to military attacks .
" Our brains are programmed to respond to eyes and faces whether we are consciously aware of it or not ," says Bateson .
" Permeability governs how fluid flows through rock , whether it ' s water or oil , so this has practical implications for oil extraction ," she says .
Children may repeat or draw out words or parts of words , or have difficulty beginning a word .
His team found that preschoolers who stuttered were typically more excitable than their peers with normal speech , and tended to have a harder time calming down or shifting their attention away from a stressful situation .
Children who stuttered showed greater emotional " reactivity " to everyday stresses , like having a toy taken away ; it took them longer to settle down once they were excited or upset ; and they were less adept at shifting their attention away from the stressor , often becoming fixated on it instead .
Findings support parents ' observations Conture says the findings are in line with what parents often tell their child ' s doctor or speech therapist : that emotional outbursts or excitement seem to trigger stuttering episodes .
He says parents should tell their health care provider if they notice that their child regularly has strong emotional reactions to everyday challenges or changes in their daily routine .
But when the respondents were asked about genetically modified crops or animals , their reaction was decidedly more negative .
For over 100 years , scientists have been puzzling over how exactly to classify sea spiders or pycnogonids .
Discovery ' s mission is only the second since the 2003 Columbia accident , and another disaster or serious problem could end the shuttle program .
But there has been anguished debate , bitter opposition and the crafting of laws and guidelines to restrict or shape cloning research .
But the miscarriage rate of transplanted eggs is extremely high , and of those embryos that make it to term , many have deformities or , as happened with Dolly , die prematurely , a clear warning to any scientist mad or foolish enough to try to make a cloned baby .
The suspected cause is that the genetic software isn ' t transferred entirely , or is somehow damaged in the transfer .
As a result , the machinery malfunctions - genes don ' t switch on or off as they should in the complex ballet of making proteins .
That claim has never been independently confirmed or even examined , and most scientists scoff at it .
When a plant - based product eventually decomposes or is burned , as in the case with fuel , it doesn ' t introduce additional carbon dioxide into the atmosphere , the way petroleum products do , he says .
The leftover substance becomes the chemical hydroxymethylfurfural , or HMF .
While the latest find does not disprove the human theory , the scientists are convinced there was a mass dodo death , possibly caused by a cyclone or flood , pre - dating the arrival of humans , says Christian Foo Kune , of the sugar estate where the remains were found .
" We could be talking about a cyclone or repeated cyclones , flooding or a sudden rise in [ sea ] water levels that trapped the animals there ," he says .
The reported breakthroughs had raised hopes because they seemed to hasten the day when genetically specific tissue could be grown from embryonic stem cells to repair damaged organs or treat diseases such as Alzheimer ' s .
People with a history of migraine without aura had narrower retinal blood vessels , or arterioles , than those with a history of migraine with aura or people with no history of migraine .
The intermediates generally only last for hours or days .
The signals or data from each of the antennas can be combined in different ways , effectively allowing the telescope to ' point ' in any direction although no moving parts are required .
Zinn thinks that in about a year , he could have the device working on residential water heaters or industrial boilers .
Current tests for BSE need brain or other tissue samples .
It could also screen people , including blood or organ donors , for the rare but devastating Creutzfeldt - Jakob Disease or CJD , and its close cousin , vCJD , the researchers say .
Current tests require brain or other tissue samples .
Mad cow disease , formally known as bovine spongiform encephalopathy or BSE , is part of the family of prion diseases that also includes scrapie in sheep , chronic wasting disease in deer and elk , and CJD in people .
Some people who ate infected beef products developed a form of CJD called variant or vCJD and at least 191 cases have been identified , mostly in the UK .
But , he says , there is a risk the nanoparticles could create local inflammation or toxic shock .
However , the study also reports that about a third of the volunteers experienced fear and anxiety after taking the psilocybin and McGregor says it should be avoided by anyone with schizophrenia or other psychotic illnesses .
First study of its kind in four decades In what is described as the first scientifically rigorous study of its kind in 40 years , 36 volunteers were given either psilocybin or a comparator drug methylphenidate hydrochloride .
After two months , two - thirds rated the experience as either the singly most spiritually significant in their lives or rated it among their top five .
In a commentary accompanying the article , Professsor David Nichols of the Purdue University school of pharmacy says it ' s likely that psilocybin triggers the same neurological process that produces religious experiences during fasting , meditation , sleep deprivation or near - death experiences .
He says the current research adds to the emerging field known as neurotheology , or the neurology of religious experience , and could shed light on the " molecular alterations in the brain that underlie religious and mystical experiences ".
In the first survey ever on this disorder , US researchers have found that it ' s more than just " thunder phobia " or mild anxiety about tornadoes or hurricanes .
More than a storm in a teacup Symptoms include dizziness , shortness of breath , nausea , heart pounding , feelings of panic , sweating , feeling helpless , constantly monitoring TV weather reports , inability to sleep or eat and changing schedules days ahead at the possibility of bad weather .
But they have done little to explain the vast cost and possible risks of projects that advocates say could bury billions of tonnes of gas and do more to slow global warming than a shift to renewable energies like solar or wind power .
A strong argument for public acceptance is that people accept a host of risks every day - flammable petrol in the fuel tanks of their vehicles , toxic natural gas piped into their homes or electricity generated from nuclear power .
Metz ' s UN report said that storage could provide 15 - 55 % of all the cuts in greenhouse gas emissions needed until 2100 - probably a bigger contribution than from renewable energies or from any revival of nuclear power .
The team reports that compared with fathers in their 20s , those between 45 and 49 years of age and those 50 years of age or older were 64 % and 49 % more likely , respectively , to have an infant with a one minute Apgar score between 1 and 3 .
Fathers 45 years of age or older were at increased risk of having an infant with a five minute Apgar score of less than 7 .
Among them are face recognition security systems , age - progression software to identify missing children , and devices that determine whether a person is old enough to buy alcohol or cigarettes .
The researchers found few bacteria , typically 1 or 2 cells per square centimetre .
Low levels The researchers found a range of organisms on coins and notes , including those that cause food poisoning or diarrhoea .
Also surprising was the number of bacteria that were resistant to one or more commonly prescribed antibiotics , like amoxycillin , roxithromycin and cefaclor .
" Do they grow or die ?
They believe the BrainGate sensor , which involves implanting electrodes in the brain , could offer new hope to people paralysed by injuries or illnesses .
He is the first of four patients with spinal cord injuries , muscular dystrophy , stroke or motor neurone disease testing the brain - to - movement system developed by the company Cyberkinetics Neurotechnology Systems .
Faster , faster In a separate study , researchers from Stanford University describe a faster way to process signals from the brain to control a computer or prosthetic device .
The gesture consists of quick and repetitive rubbing or slapping of the hand on the ground , and is used to threaten or intimidate others .
" A nonhuman primate can effectively raise an arm to ask a social partner to groom it ... give another a little slap as an invitation to play , touch furtively the hand or genitals of another to greet it , slap the ground to threaten ," the researchers say .
At the Tomakin mine on the south coast of New South Wales and the Hit or Miss mine in tropical north Queensland , most gold is hidden away in quartz veins , in amounts that are invisible even to high - powered microscopes .
Perhaps they could be used to improve gold processing , or even be useful as a marker for the presence of gold that ' s otherwise invisible .
To investigate whether marijuana smoking might lead to precancerous changes in the lungs or lung cancer , Mehra and her team reviewed 19 studies .
Analyses of sputum and lung tissue performed in some of these studies found more cancer - promoting changes in pot smokers than in cigarette smokers or non - smokers .
The review found that washing wounds , including leg ulcers , with water did not show an increase in infection or decrease in healing time , compared to using saline , she says .
While hospitals routinely use saline or sterilised water to clean uninfected wounds , community nurses have traditionally relied on people to simply shower before they dress their wounds .
Each line is rigged with hundreds or even thousands of barbed , baited hooks .
The birds can become entangled in the lines or injured , sometimes fatally , by the hooks .
For example , after nine minutes , only two or so birds went for the hooks when shark oil was present .
One or two birds may come in from time to time and do wide looping flights around the vessel , but they typically don ' t land or stick around for long ."
The repellent seems to have more to do with the noxious smell of the oil , or its consistency in the water , rather than the birds ' fear of sharks .
Not in the US , where urinals are broadcasting public health messages If you ' re a man and the urinal you ' re standing over is talking to you , one of two things is probably happening : you ' re really drunk or the owner has installed a talking urinal in the bathroom .
The device has a 9 centimetre diameter display area containing a lenticular screen that features multiple images or text that , as the person moves toward the urinal , appear to change from one graphic to the other .
Deutsch is also working with various states and their associated health agencies on devices featuring cartoon characters or sports heroes to promote anti - drug messages in schools .
" There ' s always been the concern that implanting false memories is a form of brainwashing and some people believe that maybe this kind or research should be stopped for that reason ," he says .
But prior bad experiences don ' t create an aversion to all foods and drinks , Bernstein says , only those with a distinct or unusual flavour .
He says the reminiscence bump can be partly explained by what ' s called differential encoding , or an ability to store events better during early adulthood .
" You recall more memories from the period of 10 to 25 [ than previous or subsequent periods ] and the bump has a peak between 16 and 20 ," he says .
Janssen found that when asked to rate their three favourite records , movies and books , participants in his study overwhelmingly chose items they listened to , watched or read between the ages of 16 and 21 .
While music preferences were strongly linked to the reminiscence bump , favourite books and movies were more likely to have been read or viewed recently .
This is because we usually only read books once or twice , and see movies a handful of times , but can be exposed to the same song many times , he reasons .
A tsunami warning was also issued by local authorities for India ' s Nicobar islands , but no immediate damage was reported there or in Australia .
Surgical staff leave behind a sponge or scalpel in one in 10 , 000 operations .
Researchers at Stanford University School of Medicine tested sponges embedded with radio frequency identification ( RFID ) tags that were left in eight patients having abdominal or pelvic surgery .
But the researchers say the system is still prone to error , especially if people wave the wand too far away from the body , or don ' t scan the correct part of the body .
Jamais vu literally means " never seen " and describes the sense of unfamiliarity in the face of very familiar things or situations , says UK researcher Dr Chris Moulin of the University of Leeds .
Jamais vu is the opposite of d & eacute ; j & agrave ; vu , or " already seen ", which is a sense of familiarity about an unfamiliar object , or the feeling that " I ' ve been here before ".
"[ It can also occur ] when you look at a face for too long and it begins to look strange , or when you ' re in a familiar place but think ' I don ' t know where I am ', for a brief , fleeting moment ."
Moulin says studying jamais vu will help researchers better understand psychiatric disorders like schizophrenia or Capgras delusion , where people believe someone they know very well has been replaced by an impostor .
Negatives included getting falling - down drunk , failing exams or getting into fights .
" It supports the idea that there are selective phases of autobiographical memory [ and ] depending on the situation we ' ll facilitate certain memories for retrieval and inhibit or block the retrieval of others ."
Data would be analysed and relayed automatically through mobile phone text message or email to officials who could then inform residents .
Ine set down payments of ' wergild ', or blood money , that was payable to a family for the killing of one of its members in order to prevent a blood feud .
The skeletal remains of men believed to be Anglo - Saxons are often found alongside a weapon or other precious artefacts , whereas those of native Britons are usually weaponless and have only one or two objects .
But the authors point out that there are many other examples in history , when conquerors or settlers used such controls to avoid assimilation , nurture their identity and maintain their political , military or economic supremacy over an ethnic majority .
It may be that researchers need to receive supplements of vitamin D , says Ayton , or screened for vitamin D levels before they head south .
Ayton and colleagues are also trying to find out if researchers and their families or significant partners back home have particular psychological ' resilience ' characteristics that may make reintegration more successful .
Problems adapting to Antarctic life include sleep disturbances , fatigue , lack of motivation as well as depressive or manic tendencies that can lead to conflicts with others in the group , severe problems with work or , in the worst case , suicide .
The East African Rift valley is an active divergent rift valley , one of the few areas on Earth where a continent is being actively separated or rifted by the ongoing forces of plate tectonics .
The latest evolutionary stage allowed us to name lanes on a racetrack 1 , 2 and 3 as well as describe which runner came in 1st , 2nd or 3rd We can thank our verbal nature , along with our fingers , for the ability to develop complex number systems , a new study suggests .
During the first stage , Wiese believes humans began using visual representations , such as symbols or other markings , to correspond with verbal indications of quantity .
During the third stage , Wiese thinks emphasis began to be placed on the last word or finger in a counting series .
For example , when a child who is learning to count is asked how many teddy bears he or she has , the child gives the whole sequence of numbers and then puts emphasis on the last word , as in , " I have one , two , three , four teddy bears ."
Some cultures , such as the hunter - gatherer Piraha of the Amazon , have language but do not even possess systems for numbers or counting .
" Wiese builds the case for numerical cognition growing out of the symbolic cognition at the base of language - not as a parasitic spin - off , or a mere naming of numerical concepts , but as an ability whose roots extend to the same underlying cognitive operations ," he says .
Parungao , an avid gamer , says the games feature evil gangsters , all of them non - white , who " function as narrative obstacles to be overcome , mastered or ultimately blown to smithereens by the white hero ".
He says while blatant racism is not tolerated in mainstream films or television , in video games " it ' s below the radar ".
He admits that not all games , or game publishing companies , promote such stereotypes , but says racism is rife among many of the most popular games , which are designed and published mostly in the US and Japan .
The perpetrator or group behind the emails sent to customers of the Santa Barbara Bank and Trust in California last month have yet to be caught , but the bank has alerted its customers to the scam .
It is growing , but it is not nearly as big as the threat of [ fake ] websites or criminal activity through malicious code ; we ' re talking tens of thousands versus a handful ," Hubbard says .
False voicemail Essentially , a fraudster signs up for a VoIP account , sets up a voicemail recorded message system , mimicking that of an actual bank or other company , then mass emails consumers urging them to call the false number .
Hone says the scam , as in the California case , can appear legitimate to unsuspecting consumers because VoIP accounts can be set up with local telephone codes of a user ' s choice in a variety of cities or states .
The study , published in the Archives of Internal Medicine today , is the first to directly compare high protein diets and those based on foods with a low glycaemic index or GI .
But the research shows low GI diets are better than high protein diets in reducing ' bad ' or LDL ( low density lipoprotein ) cholesterol associated with cardiovascular disease .
" In terms of weight and fat loss [ a low GI diet ] and [ a high protein diet ] were exactly the same , there was no difference in terms of weight or fat loss between those two studies ," reports lead author Joanna McMillan - Price from the University of Sydney ' s human nutrition unit .
Fat or cholesterol ?
High protein or low GI ?
Other theories have included suggestions that the perimeter of the Great Pyramid , or Cheops , of 36 , 525 pyramid inches is equal to the number of days in 100 years and the number of books of ancient wisdom credited to the Egyptian god Thoth .
The wink of a star They did this by observing split - second ' winking ', or darkening , of stars which suggests a Kuiper belt object is passing in front , or occulting the star .
" Basically our observation showed that that are many more , maybe five or 10 times as many , of the smaller objects than theory predicted ," he says .
The 6DF , which uses fibre optics , monitored 100 stars simultaneously over two weeks , the equivalent of 7000 star hours , or watching a single star every night for 3 years .
Irradiation could be a way of inactivating bacteria used to make vaccines Vaccines made with bacteria killed by gamma rays may be more effective than those made using standard heat or chemical inactivation , US government researchers say .
Vaccines can be made in three ways : using an attenuated , or weakened , form of live bacteria or virus , using a killed microbe , or using pieces of DNA from a bacteria or virus .
And it ' s important in safety assessment because particles under a particular size may be dangerous to human or environmental health .
But if you have an oval - shaped nanoparticle , for example , do you measure its width or length ?
For example , nanopolystyrene spheres , which suppliers say are 80 nanometres in size , have been measured as being 15 nanometres smaller or bigger depending on who is measuring them , he says .
And measurements of silver nanoparticles have been 10 nanometres smaller or bigger , depending on the lab , says Miles .
Nanometrologists don ' t yet know whether suppliers are producing unreliably - sized particles or whether those measuring them are getting it wrong .
But he says the instrument is three or four years away .
It does this without lenses , filters or detector arrays typically used for the task .
In conventional imaging systems , the lens is a crucial component , as it focuses the light onto the detector surface , whether that is a light - sensitive film or computer chip .
Placing one screen in front of another , or forming one screen into a sphere as the team did in laboratory tests , provides even more detail .
Sensitive tastebuds may explain why your kids won ' t eat broccoli , carrots or cucumbers Picky kids who won ' t eat vegetables may be particularly sensitive to bitter flavours , a new study shows .
A total of 37 % said the water tasted " yucky " or bad , while the rest couldn ' t taste anything and were considered " nontasters ".
Seeman ' s research is part of a different approach to assembling things at the atomic or molecular level .
While helicopters can take off and land vertically and can hover , they are not as efficient at forward flight as conventional aircraft , which means they don ' t tend to fly as fast or as far .
HIV cannot be cured but the drugs , known as highly active antiretroviral therapy , or HAART , can keep the virus under control .
Velvet worms , or onychophorans , are extremely rare and are only found along the east coast of Australia , Tasmania , New Zealand , South Africa , South America and along the tropics .
Drinking water generally only passes through a sand or carbon filter and isn ' t subject to reverse osmosis , he says .
Ashbolt says up to 70 % of the water that goes into the treatment plant is tertiary treated effluent , or effluent that been treated to the standard level to allow it to be released into the environment .
Project Manager Ian Newbery says the documents don ' t recommend whether or not effluent recycling should be adopted as a source of drinking water .
" We ' ve found 10 or maybe 100 times more diversity in sea water than anyone imagined was present ," he says .
Another possibility is that rare bacteria are tolerated in a habitat because they produce something , perhaps an enzyme or vitamin , that more common species need .
A side - effect of tolerating scarce types of bacteria is that they might prove to be a reserve of spare parts to help ocean life rebound after some cataclysm such as a giant asteroid or an ice age , Sogin says .
The researchers found that the risk of miscarriage was 60 % greater when the father was age 40 or older than when he was 25 - 29 years old .
And people who did possess the suspected ' smart ' versions of the genes weren ' t necessarily the most intelligent or the ones with the biggest brains .
Ancestral or evolved ?
We all carry the three genes the QMIR team investigated but some of us carry ' ancestral ', or less evolved , versions and others carry ' derived ' or more recently evolved versions .
But our brains have stopped growing and have actually started getting smaller , or at least more ' compact '.
The skin is shed naturally when the whales soar out of the water or slap their tails onto the surface .
Palaeontologist Maria McNamara says the find could tell us more about whether ancient creatures hibernated or whether they were cold - or warm - blooded .
It can tell you the state of the organism when it died , was it healthy , did it hibernate , where did it produce its red blood cells and whether it was warm - blooded or cold - blooded ," she says .
It could help to resolve some debate about whether they were warm - blooded or cold - blooded ," McNamara says .
She says researchers are now doing tests to see if any biomolecules , like amino acids or proteins , are preserved .
" The fatty bone marrow is yellow and is a sort of energy reserve in terms of starvation or something and you also have red bone marrow and that is where your blood cells are produced ," she says .
" These loops are on the order of two or three days ," says Johnson of the timeframe in which weather tugs and varies the direction Earth ' s axis is pointed in space .
" It was basically now or never ," says S & eacute ; bastien Lambert of the Royal Observatory of Belgium of their well - timed measurements , which used GPS data to ferret out the weather effects .
" At the latitude of Reagan National Airport [ near Washington DC ], the variation could be the difference between a plane landing on the runway or hitting the Potomac River ."
A GM corn that could soon be approved for human consumption in Australia and New Zealand might produce similar toxins to those of concern in cooked red meat , say some scientists Australia and New Zealand ' s food regulator is failing to apply its own safety standards , or those of international guidelines , in assessing a new - generation GM corn for human consumption , critics say .
FSANZ says Codex only asks regulators to consider testing heated or processed GM foods .
But in developed countries infection often doesn ' t occur until adolescence or young adulthood , when it ' s more likely to make people sick .
According to Crawford ' s team , the new findings suggest that sexually active teens and adults may be exposed to a larger dose of EBV through particularly ' deep ' kissing , or possibly through genital fluids , which can carry the virus .
" We suggest that a vaccine that reduces the level of viral infection and / or replication during primary infection could be sufficient to prevent [ glandular fever ]," the researchers conclude .
Whenever a new leader came into power , he would probably seek to validate his new political and ideological ideas through modification or expansion of the temple system ," adds Kolb , a professor of anthropology at Northern Illinois University .
Over time , Polynesian culture shifted toward sacrificial worship , which led to the enormous platform temples , some built on cliff faces or other prominent spots .
The most elaborate temples featured altars , oracle towers , offering pits , palisades , drum houses , and god or ancestral images carved from wood or stone .
" Members of the chiefly class were allowed into sacred areas of the temples , but they had to get in prostrate positions or lie down , sometimes for hours , as a sign of submission and respect for the chief ."
When Christianity was introduced to the islands in 1820 , most of the temples were destroyed or abandoned .
Both Earle and Kolb believe the new findings suggest early Hawaiian monumental architecture was comparable to that of other famous ancient civilizations , such as the Maya or the early Egyptians , since all appeared to have linked temple construction to economic , political and ritual development .
Radio frequency identification technology , or RFID , used in cash cards and passports , can be copied , blocked or imitated , says Melanie Rieback , a privacy researcher at Vrije University in the Netherlands .
The device is also designed to block scanners , legitimate or illicit , reading a tag .
The chips store financial , identity , or other data that can then be sent to scanners by radio signals .
RFID tags have been used for decades to track cattle or wild animals .
Pet owners also have chips , about the size of grains of rice , implanted under the skin of their dogs or cats so they can be identified and returned if they run away .
Or is she fatter or thinner in real life ?
She asked 118 normal weight university students , mostly aged 17 to 22 , to study actual photographs of thin female celebrities and computer - altered images showing them as thinner or heavier .
The pros and cons Ultrasound scans give parents a peek at the unborn child and doctors a chance to see if there are any serious defects that might be corrected before or right at birth .
" We do not have any evidence ourselves that ultrasound waves cause behavioural effects in mice or have any effect on the developing human brain ," he says .
He says the study suggests that pregnant women should not get multiple ultrasound scans for fun or out of curiosity .
No one knows how sound waves might disturb a developing foetus or embryo , both Caviness and Rakic say .
" We asked people had they experienced coercion , or felt coercion in terms of undertaking testing , and most respondents answered no they had not ," she says .
A total of 11 %, or 107 of the 951 respondents , reported one or more incidents of discrimination .
The report also found that most people either didn ' t know where to go to complain about negative treatment or didn ' t want to , citing red tape and concern about consequences .
" We would think that there ' s a need for increased education ... about consumers rights regarding seeking review or making complaints about negative treatment ," Taylor says .
Haynes ' research suggests the Boolarra strain bred with existing koi , or Japanese carp , from earlier releases and began their colonisation of the southeastern waterways .
The study could also resolve the question of whether the Boolarra strain was illegally imported or obtained locally from a population in the Prospect Reservoir in New South Wales .
XX men Australian researcher Professor Andrew Sinclair , of Murdoch Childrens Research Institute , is researching so - called XX men , or the roughly one in 150 , 000 men who are born without a Y chromosome .
Until now , if scientists had wanted to study fossil embryos , they had to look at them from the outside or cut narrow slices of the embryos , which obviously destroys them .
But this new method , known as synchroton - radiation x - ray tomographic microscopy or SRXTM , leaves the tiny fossils untouched , yet gives graphic details of their structure .
The new study supports the idea that an infectious cell line is threatening to wipe out the Tasmanian devil Dogs can ' catch ' cancer by having sex with infected dogs , or perhaps by licking , biting or sniffing them , UK researchers show .
Murgia and colleagues say the cancer arose at least 200 , and possibly 2500 , years ago in either a wolf or a closely related ancient dog breed , making it the oldest cancer known to science .
This has suggested that Monet dated his works to the time they were completed or sold , when he had already returned from London to his home at Giverny in Normandy , northern France .
" There is some uncertainty as to whether the paintings are reasonably accurate depictions of observations , one of the tenets of impressionism , or whether the final paintings were rather creations of Monet ' s imagination in his studio in Giverny ," says Dr Jacob Baker , of the University of Birmingham .
Explosive ingredients can be concealed in bottles or other innocent - looking containers that would pass through x - ray machines .
" It ' s something which I would imagine could only be solved with either sniffer dogs or electronic sniffers and hand searching .
Its scanner , with a traffic - light display to indicate all - clear , further investigation or danger , has already been trialled internationally , including at Manchester Airport .
Though police have given no further details , security analysts say there were indications they were concerned about militants setting off a liquid explosive such as nitroglycerine with some form of non - metal detonator , or combining otherwise harmless liquids on board a plane to produce an explosive mix .
PGD , or preimplantation genetic diagnosis , enables genetic abnormalities to be diagnosed in a very early IVF embryo before it is implanted into the mother .
A woman with a family history of breast cancer , or who carries the BRCA mutation , can ensure her baby doesn ' t inherit it by undergoing IVF to create an embryo and testing that embryo before implantation .
Dr David Cram , director of molecular genetic services at another large Victorian clinic , Monash IVF , says two patients have requested BRCA screening in the two or three years it ' s been available .
" But it would be an interesting one to run past the ethics committee , because when you ' re testing for say cystic fibrosis or Huntington ' s , you ' re discarding or destroying embryos because they actually carry a moderately lethal defect .
Researchers from Japan , the UK and Hawaii have now found that sperm can be frozen safely for much longer than previously thought , so long as it is kept in organs or whole carcasses and cooled slowly to - 20 & deg ; C or lower .
Any conventional freezer or dry ice will work very well ."
Just put the testes or dead body into a freezer ."
The new teddy is designed to recognise you , respond if you cuddle it and tell medical staff if anything ' s wrong An electronic teddy bear inspired by therapeutic companion animals could offer hospital and nursing home patients a meaningful form of treatment without the worry of allergies , bites or maintenance .
The bear is also designed to monitor the patient , alert nearby nurses when the person may need help or more intensive , long - term care and even gather information about the interaction that can be used to better understand the relationship later .
" We are designing the Huggable to be much more than a fun , interactive robotic companion , but rather to function as a team member that works with both the patient or resident and the hospital or nursing home staff with the ultimate goal of promoting the wellbeing of the person ," says Walter Dan Stiehl , a PhD candidate at MIT and the team leader for the project .
The temperature , force , and electric field sensors will work together to distinguish the presence of a human , pick up some of the physiological signs of the patient ' s condition and discern whether the person is petting , scratching , slapping or hugging the bear .
The technology will be designed to work with a separate computer located at a nurse ' s station , where video , audio , or other data collected by the bear ' s sensors could alert caregivers in times of potential crisis .
Any changes , such as the patient suddenly becoming aggressive or showing far less activity , may offer subtle indications of more serious problems .
The whale had enourmous eyes and , unlike today ' s baleen whales , teeth to rip apart prey A bizarre whale fossil found on a beach in southern Australia suggests that baleen whales , the filter - feeding gentle giants of the sea , were not always gentle , or giants , a researcher says .
" It may be that there is a difference in the way the facial blood vessels respond during social encounters [ in fearful blushers ] which prolongs the increase in facial blood flow ; or a difference in the way people cope in slightly stressful situations ," he says .
" During these social encounters they are blushing no more strongly or more frequently ... than people who don ' t feel they blush very much .
Devices on the horizon include insect - based sensors , wallpaper that sniffs out explosives as you walk past and smart closed - circuit TV that can pick a suspect out from a crowd or tell if you ' ve left a bomb under a seat .
Shan says new face recognition algorithms have been developed by NICTA and University of Queensland that aren ' t befuddled by lighting , expression or angle of the face .
" These discoveries have rightfully called into question whether or not they should be considered as new planets ."
UB313 , found some 15 billion kilometres from Earth , ignited a huge row as Pluto ' s defenders said UB313 was not a planet , just a rock , or KBO , a Kuiper belt object .
Nature decides whether or not an object is a planet ," says Professor Richard Binzel , a member of the defining committee .
Central to this double - planet system is a common centre of gravity , or barycentre , that exists in free space above the surface of Pluto .
" Based on an extrapolation of the current recession of the Moon , this will happen in about 5 billion plus or minus 1 billion years ."
Dust devils , or willy willies , can ' t be explained by wind alone , scientists say It ' s not just wind that raises sand and dust devils , say physicists , powerful electrical fields created by wind , sand and dust also levitate more dust into the air .
More than 100 , 000 volts per metre of natural , ' static ' electricity have been measured in desert dust storms and the mini - tornado - like dust devils or willy willies .
Scientists behaving badly or a misunderstanding ?
Not so , according to scientists using data from the Far Ultraviolet Spectroscopic Explorer , or FUSE .
In adding up the amount of deuterium , whether free - flying or bound to dust , there was far more than expected .
" This implies that either significantly less material has been converted to helium and heavier elements in stars or that much more primordial gas has rained down onto the galaxy over its lifetime than had been thought ," says Linsky .
A life underground The trilobites were probably killed by something like a sudden upwelling of oxygen - poor water or some other quick and deadly event , Cherns explains .
She says belief becomes embedded in the brain either through one single , significant event or through constant repetition , such as prayer or rituals , rather than evidence - based deduction .
" One of the hardest things for a human is to be told that you ' re in danger and not be allowed a way out or seen any means by which you can take evasive action ," she says .
Turtles aestivate , or dig themselves into the mud , to escape heat and lack of water during the late dry season , anywhere between August to December .
In this case , the starry areas in the colliding clusters have far more mass than can be accounted for by visible stars or by interstellar gases , since the stars left the gases behind .
So the rest must be invisible to telescopes , or ' dark '.
Clues to what dark matter ' s made from It appears that dark matter particles , whatever they are , behave more like the raisins than the oats ; they are either widely spaced , like stars , or have some other way of avoiding collisions with each other .
Chocolate , citrus or stinky ?
While the pleasant taste - producing fungi are not harmful to health , others can be toxic , and these often produce rancid , stinky , smoky , woody or fermented bouquets .
But it may be possible to use the knowledge to produce ranges of coffee with a particular flavour , potentially complementing the traditional bottles of vanilla or hazelnut flavourings found at your local cafe .
" We can encourage the good fungi to grow and use it to produce good flavours , like wine or other food like cheese where you use mould or yeast to ... give a special flavour ," she says .
The work has won Dr Amanda Hayes , Shahnaz Bakand and Chris Winder of the University of New South Wales ( UNSW ) a Eureka Prize for research that replaces the use of animals or animal products .
Using statistics and computer modelling , the researchers focused on linkage ' disequilibriums ', or sections within genes that did not make sense if only modern human matings are considered .
If this population did not cross with modern humans , or almost did not , the effect is too small to explain the data .
The researchers agree with recent studies that conclude Neanderthals did not contribute any mitochondrial DNA , or mtDNA , genetic material that is passed from mothers to children .
The embryo at that stage is no longer able to divide into twins but the cells can still form any cell or tissue in the body .
Lanza ' s team managed to get 19 different cells to grow and got two stem - cell batches , or lines .
Dogs feel especially intense jealousy pangs in a ' love triangle ' involving their owner and another more recently introduced person or animal , a new study suggests .
When Morris and Doe interviewed participants about their observations , owners repeatedly said their pooches seemed jealous when they introduced a new person or animal to the family .
" Jealousy is at its heart related to the real or anticipated loss of love , affection and attention ," says Morris .
The male satin bowerbird ( Ptilonorhynchus violaceus ) is particularly drawn to blue objects and researchers hypothesise this could be for reasons of vanity or practicality .
Either they had stolen something , or something had been stolen from them ."
Archaeological evidence from ancient dung suggests that the people who lived here kept sheep or goats The discovery of a neolithic complex of caves in Greece suggests not all cavemen were club - wielding , nomadic hunter - gatherers , but included some farmers and shepherds .
Karkanas says the animals were probably " milkers or very young ".
He points out that farming in Greece started at about 6500 BC , at the beginning of the Neolithic era , or the New Stone Age .
" Part of the change was a focus on the production of wool and hair for textiles , which were traded for imported materials , possibly exotic flint or obsidian ."
This discovery of Xena prompted questions as to whether Pluto and other largish objects could be considered planets or just simply rocks - rubble left over from the formation of the solar system .
But Haswell - Elkins says it ' s too early to say whether the cadmium is causing the kidney damage or whether already - damaged kidneys are simply allowing more cadmium to escape in the urine .
They say it could be used for everything from inputting information into a computer or PDA to transferring the physical characteristics of an object to a computer for design purposes .
" With this device a computer , cell phone or computer game could read human intention more naturally ," says Kesavadas .
" Eventually the Fingertip Digitizer may be used as a high - end substitute for a mouse , a keyboard or a joystick ."
And although there are several force - feedback , or haptic devices , none can measure details of dynamic fingertip activities , including acceleration and inertia .
In a room with a high window or a door with a gap , the cool air from outside displaces warm air inside , creating a system of heat cycles and eddies .
So in total there would be two vampires and one less human , or a tally of vampires 2 , humans - 1 .
After n months there would be 2 x 2 x 2 ... x 2 = 2 ^ n , or a geometric progression with ratio 2 .
The authors called for measures to reduce sex selection and an urgent change in cultural attitudes , or dire consequences could follow .
Fossilised insects and microorganisms are extremely rare , as they do not have a tough internal skeleton like , for instance , dinosaurs , early birds or hominids .
As a result , these tiny fossils only turn up in exceptional finds , embedded in amber or in fine - grain chalky deposits .
For example , it ' s illegal to claim territory in space or to use space for military or non - peaceful purposes .
Freeland says other space tourism issues potentially affected by whether a craft is in space or the air include insurance , liability , traffic control and rescue obligations .
" You have to have legal certainty [ about ] what law applies , whether it ' s international air law or international law of outer space or a combination of both ," he says .
He says major players in the space race , like the US , have resisted moves to pin down a definition of space , largely because it could restrict their ability to carry out certain activities that would be banned or limited under space law .
That question is now the focus of feverish discussion and planning by Louisiana ' s brand - new Coastal Protection and Restoration Authority , or CPR Authority , says Robert Twilley , a professor of wetlands biogeochemistry at Louisiana State University ( LSU ).
Muddy mystery One of the most slippery and yet fundamental aspects of all that modelling and planning is figuring out subsidence , or just how fast the Louisiana coast is sinking and whether there is anything we can do about it .
It lasted almost 40 minutes , whereas a typical GRB only lasts a few milliseconds or tens of seconds at the most .
Neutron star or black hole ?
" We have the basis of a biomimetic organic photovoltaic device or solar cell ," says Crossley .
Those who became more hostile suffered a more rapid decline in lung power than counterparts whose temperament remained unchanged or became more positive .
The researchers found that the risk of death - from blood clots , infection or complications from anaesthesia - was 3 . 6 times higher for women who had caesareans .
The risk of death after childbirth was increased whether or not the caesarean was performed before the onset of labour or during labour .
Chemical engines burn out after a couple of minutes , whereas an ion engine can push on gently for months or even years , for so long as the Sun shines and the small supply of propellant lasts .
And it is also likely to be the propulsion for hauling big cargo containers to the Moon to help build the first lunar settlement , or to Mars , to support the first manned mission there , he says .
SMART - 1 has also sought out locations at the lunar poles that are in permanent shade and could be worth exploring if , as some scientists hope , water exists on the Moon or just below its surface .
While the study found genetic effects often determine whether a person will be heavy or thin , the researchers say we cannot always blame our genes for weight problems .
That research , published in the journal Science last year , found that lean people spend an average two hours more a day than their obese counterparts doing unconscious , spontaneous movements such as lifting their arms , jigging a foot or getting up and down .
The difference in receptor number could be because of genetic programming or changes produced by over or under stimulation during life , she says .
She says her findings could eventually lead to an anti - obesity treatment , such as a patch , that either increased the number of brain ' s orexin - A receptors or boost the sensitivity of existing ones .
Unlike humans , who can pig out on chocolate or hot chips until we make ourselves sick , possums know exactly when they ' re starting to overload their system with toxins , says researcher Dr Karen Marsh of the Australian National University .
It neutralises these in various ways , for example , by oxidising the toxins or converting them into different molecules .
" Basically they seem to be able to recognise whether toxins are similar or different and feed accordingly ," Marsh says .
" Can they survive in a habitat that ' s been degraded and only has one type of plant , or do they really need that mix ... so they can be swapping between the different plants ?"
For example , synaesthetes report being able to taste music , see sounds or hear images .
Linking vision and sound Synaesthetes make up only about one or two in every hundred people , but Ward believes we all link vision and sound unconsciously and we tend to agree on which images match which sounds .
A woman places flowers at the entrance to Australia Zoo after its conservationist patron Steve Irwin , or the Crocodile Hunter , died from a stingray ' s barb to the heart on Monday In death as in life , iconic TV naturalist Steve Irwin captivated millions worldwide and clogged the internet as fans from around the world reacted with disbelief to news the Crocodile Hunter was dead .
" People have been playing around with these problems for 10 years or more ."
In the first major study into the bubbling phenomenon , or ebullition , Walter ' s team believes that current estimates of methane released from wetlands between latitudes 65 and 70 & deg ; north should be upgraded by 10 - 63 %.
The researchers sought to investigate the role of MMOs , in which players inhabit ' avatars ' or on - screen representations of characters within virtual worlds and chat with other players by text or voice , in players ' social lives .
Chimp or lollipop man ?
The leader , or another adult male , would then wait at the end of the line to assist the littlest ones .
The majority of research on chimpanzee intelligence is currently conducted in highly deprived lab situations , and , perhaps unsurprisingly , individuals often show little or no interest in engaging in cooperative or altruistic acts ."
Then they averaged the yield , or the average amount of venom a snake produces when it is milked , by each snake type .
Dr Adrian Owen , a neuroscientist at the University of Cambridge and colleagues in the UK and Belgium , used functional magnetic resonance imaging , or fMRI , to look at the woman ' s brain in action .
" These results confirm that ... this patient retained the ability to understand spoken commands and to respond to them through her brain activity , rather than through speech or movement ," the researchers write .
Experts note the woman had relatively little brain damage , and say traumatic brain injury often heals better than injury caused by stroke or heart attack such as Schiavo suffered .
" If this patient is actually conscious , why wouldn ' t she be able to engage in intentional overt motor acts , given that she had not suffered functional or structural lesion of the motor pathways ?"
Yet the investigation , which included help from the FBI and New Scotland Yard , could find no cause of death , motive or killer .
" The probabilities were [ that ] it was an inhaled gas , as opposed to a pill or something like that ," he says .
" We can always press the rewind button or put the tape back in again because that ' s how we knew him ."
Those with common flu had no virus in their blood or rectum .
" They satisfy the ... criteria for conduct disorder and or delinquency and later down the track a number of these young people go on to antisocial behaviour personality disorder ," he says .
" It may be extending their creative skills or just sitting down with them and saying , listen you ' ve had a bit of a shit life haven ' t you ?"
The concept came from software that Woolf invented , called Innovation Engine , which pulls knowledge from databases to systematically help the user improve an existing product or come up with a new idea .
Other products , such as paint , perfume , and shampoos could also offer customised colours , scents or conditioning formulas .
Drink or toy ?
" I don ' t think it ' s going to change how many people drink sugared drinks or non - sugared drinks ," he says .
" This fact may account for our strong psychological feeling of ' right ' or ' wrong ' when we retrieve a memory from a minimal clue ."
He says the process described in Hopfield ' s paper helps us to remember a name from a fragment or recognise a partially obscured face .
" Prolonged weightlifting could be a potential risk factor for the development or progression of glaucoma ."
The researchers say the form of glaucoma relevant to weight lifters is known as normal - tension , or low - tension glaucoma .
It ' s also more common among people who play high - resistance wind instruments or those with asthma or intestinal or urinary tract blockages .
The discovery is the second for a network called the Trans - Atlantic Exoplanet Survey , or TrES , which taps small telescopes in California , Arizona and the Canary Islands to hunt for planets outside our solar system .
By observing the star over a period of weeks or months , astronomers can detect if there are any objects that temporarily and regularly block a bit of sunlight .
Researchers now hope to determine if the plasma bands shift with the seasons , or during large events like hurricanes .
Pluto , or 134340 , is in the centre and its satellite Charon , 134340 1 , is just below it .
But new findings by Professor Clive Finlayson of the Gibraltar Museum show the two groups may have coexisted in Europe for 4000 years or longer .
The new paper does not address this controversial theory , but notes there is no evidence of " transitional " tools or activities at the cave .
A smaller group of scientists says that the dominant cause of warming is a natural variation in the climate system , or a gradual rise in the Sun ' s energy output .
They also found little sign of solar warming or cooling when they checked telescope observations of sunspots against temperature records going back to the 17th century .
" Overall , we can find no evidence for solar luminosity variations of sufficient amplitude to drive significant climate variations on centennial , millennial or even million - year time scales ," the report says .
Still , the report also says there could be other , more subtle solar effects on the climate , such as from cosmic rays or ultraviolet radiation .
Nanotechnology involves manipulating matter at the atomic or molecular level A nine - point plan for the responsible development of nanotechnology in Australia has been recommended in a new report .
" Then the next one would be Spock or something , and that wouldn ' t be quite so dignified ," Brown says .
" The environmental impact associated with spraying insecticides , whether it ' s DDT or other insecticides , indoors is minimal , it ' s negligible ...
Molecular dating shows the variety found in Africa ' s Western Cape split from the Australian variety about 50 million years , or 50 million years after the accepted time of continental fragmentation .
Because macadamia nuts are heavy and rock - like , it ' s unlikely they were carried by the wind or even floated across the ocean , Weston says .
" Unlike a terrorist threat , moving people into the [ carpark ] or open field during an electrical storm will probably hurt people ," he says .
Yet there was little comprehension among spectators or stadium officials that at 80 kilometres per hour , the tornado could potentially reach the stadium in just minutes .
Waste from such easy manufacturing , or nanolitter , is another issue that needs to be thought about , he says .
Do they really depend solely on undisturbed forest or do they like urban areas where fruit trees are irrigated and predators are few ?
Scattered or killed ?
" We recorded an 80 % decline in flying fox abundance in Tonga after the cyclone , and this was almost certainly due to mortality , either directly during the storm or afterwards due to a lack of food " and human hunting , she adds .
His team is developing a system in which porous concrete pavers allows run - off to seep into underground tanks made of galvanised metal or a flexible plastic lining filled with gravel .
And additives mixed into the pavers , or into the sand and gravel bedding material beneath them , enables the system to trap pollutants .
The survey , which was conducted with North Carolina ' s Elon University , also found that a majority of internet leaders , activists and analysts questioned agree with predictions that by 2020 : &# 149 ; A global , low - cost network will be thriving and mobile communications will be available to anyone anywhere at low cost &# 149 ; English will be a universal language of global communication but other languages , such as Mandarin , could grow in prominence &# 149 ; Virtual reality on the internet will lead to more productivity but will also spawn new addiction problems &# 149 ; Humans will remain in charge of technology , even as more activity is automated and ' smart agents ' proliferate , and &# 149 ; People will wittingly or unwittingly disclose more about themselves , gaining some benefits in the process even as they lose some privacy .
Methane can be emitted as a result of natural or human activity .
" If they dry up , then the emission of methane stops or slows down ."
NASA ' s chief scientist for Mars exploration Dr Jim Garvin describes the formation as the equivalent of a butte or mesa .
In movies , books and on the web , some have argued this is a massive sculpture built by intelligent life and that surrounding conical - like structures are pyramids , or remnants of a great city , built by a complex civilisation .
Alien face or eroded surface , the face on Mars is of interest to planetary geologists like Garvin and these latest images reveal new geological details .
The latest images show the beginnings of what are called debris aprons , or gentle landslides , surrounding hills .
In this case , dogs appear to gain information about another dog or human ' s social status and ability just by watching that individual compete .
For some games , the human competitor made it clear that he or she was playing by performing moves that dogs seem to associate with playtime .
After such competitions , the spectator canine would rapidly approach the human or doggy winner with a cheerful gait holding its ears and tail up , signifying a desire to interact with the victor .
But she says it can foreshadow or even influence developments in science , adding that more members of the public watch science fiction than " science factual ".
Not only do mythical figures like the Amazons , the god Apollo or the sirens of Homeric lore appear in space , but Star Trek contains the sweeping themes of intrepid adventure and bold exploration that lie at the heart of classical mythology .
Israelis and Palestinians usually conduct their research separately and discuss it by phone or online due to the Israeli travel restrictions that also ban most Israelis from entering Palestinian - controlled areas .
The revelation settles an old controversy because only girls or women of bad virtue wore their hair loose in 16th century Italy , says project leader Bruno Mottin from the state museum agency .
One of her garments , similar to fashions that pregnant or nursing women wore in this period , was also lost under yellow varnish and no longer visible to the naked eye , the infrared scans show .
Researchers also gleaned insights about the da Vinci ' s painting technique , including his sfumato or smoke technique of soft , heavily shaded modelling , says Mottin .
Downloading information to your mobile phone may be a case of pointing it at a building and clicking One day you ' ll be able to point your mobile phone at a train station , click and download a timetable , or point it at a museum to download a list of exhibits , researchers say .
That ' s the idea behind Dr Federico Casalegno ' s Electronic Lens or eLens project at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology .
You could also use the phone to contribute to conversation threads , similar to those on internet forums , about a particular business or institution .
For example , you could submit or retrieve a movie review at a movie theatre .
Next , the manager would launch the Radioactive program , which would ask him or her to name the tag and provide its location .
Then , the manager can create a message that contains text , audio , pictures or video .
People could place their own tags around town to open up public dialogues about parks or city schools .
They could even use the tags inside a building , such as a hospital , to provide information to select groups , such as doctors , nurses or visitors .
Casalegno has already conducted a user study of 20 people in Spain and is now working on a new version of eLens to be tested by next year with 100 participants in Boston or Chicago .
The experiment was part of a program backed by the European Space Agency to develop techniques for performing robotic surgery aboard the International Space Station or at a future Moon base .
In the shorter term , pre - built robotic surgical blocks could also have valuable uses here on Earth , for instance inside caves or locations that are difficult to access , such as after an earthquake .
Spiders are already known to have two mechanisms that allow them to walk upside or cling to smooth vertical surfaces .
One day you might be greeted by a talking , thinking computer - animated face like this one when booking a ticket , or withdrawing money from the bank Talking , thinking cartoon faces that understand our needs may one day improve our chances of getting what we want from computers , say experts .
The animated faces may replace the mouse , keyboard and the touch screen as the main way we interact with computers , say when booking tickets or withdrawing money from the bank .
It would select articulation , intonation , facial expression or vocabulary to best suit the person it ' s talking to , says Burnham .
He says such a head on a videophone could make automated directory assistance more effective at communicating with children , or people with accents or hearing disabilities .
One project is also exploring the use of a talking , thinking head as a personal companion and minder for elderly or disabled people .
" People go to hospital only after they develop severe [ skin ] disease , but little is known as to what happened or what caused it ," says Assistant Professor Toshiro Takai of the Atopy Research Centre at the Juntendo University School of Medicine in Tokyo .
They then dabbed the mice with riboflavin , or vitamin B2 , which is accepted in the scientific community as a substitute for allergens and irritants in the environment .
It was much more annoying , for example , than the sound of a dragged stool , a metal drawer being opened , scraping wood , scraping metal or rubbing together two pieces of polystyrene foam .
Dr Jerry Yang of the University of Connecticut , Dr Tao Cheng of the University of Pittsburgh , and colleagues cloned mice using fully differentiated , or mature , white blood cells called granulocytes .
Supporters of so - called therapeutic cloning want to some day be able to take a single cell from a patient , perhaps a skin cell , and use it to generate tailor - made tissue or organ transplants .
But Lewis says there is no suggestion that one culture is " smarter " or " better " than another .
" What we ' re looking for are correlates in the brain that anthropologists have in the past thought of as being cultural or culturally mediated ," he says .
" That means there are potentially that many brains ... and we ' re looking at certain groups or clusters ."
But he says that it is not complicated or expensive .
She believes jokes rely on the juxtapositioning of two mismatched or incompatible concepts .
RNA or ribonucleic acid is the molecule that transmits the genetic information encoded in DNA .
Plants use the RNA interference , or RNAi , mechanism to fight off viruses and the discovery is being exploited by labs and companies around the world to try to find cures for cancer , certain types of blindness , and even bird flu .
Researchers can use it to turn off or turn down a gene and see what happens .
These genes cannot all be firing full blast at the same time , so in each type of cell some genes are turned on , or expressing , and most of the others are off .
At least 23 different companies are focusing on RNA interference , either for therapy or research .
The second group , or similarity network , includes artists who share an element of musical similarity , and puts Mick Jagger in with Tina Turner and David Bowie .
" Rather than having a pre - defined ranking which says these singers are rock or alternative or classical ... the categories derive from a broad user base interacting with the data ," he says .
At ground level , though , ozone , as a chemical reaction between exhaust fumes and sunlight , is a pollutant that can be dangerous for people with bad respiratory or heart problems .
The discovery of cosmic ripples just after the Big Bang explains why the universe is lumpy and not a smooth sheet of matter or energy US scientists Dr John Mather and Professor George Smoot have won the 2006 Nobel prize for physics for finding the background radiation that finally nailed down the Big Bang theory of the origin of the universe .
This is mass that no one has been able to see or measure but which must exist because of the amount of gravity measured in the universe .
The Australian Heritage Council report on the Dampier Archipelago , which the minister released this week , describes the density of rock carvings , or petroglyphs , and stone arrangements on the Dampier as " exceptional ".
After the paper dries , it can be bent , folded or trimmed with scissors .
It also makes it possible to sanitise the paper with a torch flame or ultraviolet light .
The Swedish Academy of Sciences says Kornberg junior ' s research into how RNA or ribonucleic acid moves genetic information around the cell was of " fundamental medical importance ".
And because the transfer of information helps explain how a cell becomes a nerve or liver or muscle cell , understanding transcription is crucial for the development of various therapeutic applications of stem cells .
If someone is feeling angry or threatened they cross their arms causing the sleeves to generated an almost painfully high pitch .
The LEDs light up when someone touches the skirt , whispers something in the ear of the wearer , or blows on their neck .
At that time , the area of Spitsbergen was under water several hundred kilometres further south , around the latitude of Anchorage or Oslo .
" After 20 minutes or so your hands would really get very sore ," he says .
The camel ' s shoulders stood three metres high and it was around four metres tall , as big as a giraffe or an elephant ," he says .
That makes the ancient camel twice as tall as today ' s dromedaries , or one - humped camels .
Neanderthal or Homo sapiens ?
" The bone is that of a Homo sapiens , or modern man , but the tooth is extremely archaic , similar to that of a Neanderthal .
Do we have a very old Homo sapiens , or a Neanderthal ?"
" It was a savannah more or less ," he says .
These objects , also known as active galactic nuclei or AGN , are millions or even billions times as large as the Sun and occupy a region of space about the size of our solar system .
" Perhaps as much as 20 % of all of the radiated energy in the universe arises in one way or another from AGN activity ."
Scientists have long debated whether the long streams , which can flow for hundreds of thousands of light - years across the sky , contain electrons , their antimatter partners positrons , or a mix of electrons and protons .
Only careful analysis of data returned by seismic or atmospheric sensors will say whether the blast was a success or a damp squib , they say .
The body is not qualified to make public statements on the nature of the incidents registered by its monitoring systems , and therefore has not confirmed whether or not a nuclear explosion had taken place as claimed by North Korea .
Telltale signs Radioactive particles and gases that can vent from an underground nuclear blast are also telltale signs , providing clues as to the type of material ( uranium or plutonium ) that was used and to the size of the weapon .
Movement or subsidence of the soil would be the sign of a big blast .
The researchers say this is the first time that nanotechnology , technology at the atomic or molecular scale , has been used to achieve complete haemostasis , the process of stopping bleeding from a damaged blood vessel .
Epstein ' s engine will run on a variety of fuel , including kerosene , propane , ethanol , methanol or hydrogen .
Epstein and his team , like other researchers in this field , turn to the field of microelectromechanical systems , or MEMS , which is used to fabricate miniature devices ranging from computer chips and biological sensors to chemical processors .
The etching requires incredible accuracy with little or no room for error .
But the time it would give you power , it ' s potentially 100 times more ... maybe 50 or 60 hours ," says Pello .
The method could analyse not only plays attributed to Shakespeare but anonymous or controversial writings by other authors .
Fusion reactors rely on plasma , the gas produced by very high temperatures or pressures , such as in the heart of the Sun or in lightning Australia is running out of time to be part of the global research effort on nuclear fusion , say experts .
The other is fallout , radioactive particles or gases , that often escape from an underground test site , even if the tunnel or shaft is sealed tight .
The effect can be amplified , causing global cooling , affecting precipitation patterns and even creating ice ages in higher latitudes , when two or all the cycles peak together .
One wave of extinction was roughly every 2 . 4 million years or so and the other was about every million years or so , coinciding with extremes in the cycles of ellipticality , wobble and tilt .
These were not swift , massive die - outs of the kind that famously wiped out the dinosaurs 65 million years ago , but rather a fade - out of species that could not cope with habitat loss or competition , especially when ice ages kicked in .
" During the extinction waves , about five or six species would disappear over a period of about 100 , 000 years or so ."
" About 60 % of the methane going into the atmosphere is anthropogenic ," or human - caused , MacDonald says .
" Older adults tend to be more likely to ask about private or personal issues in public than younger adults are ," says von Hippel .
He found that older people were more likely to ask in public if someone had put on weight , about their haemorrhoids , or whether they were still having problems with their partner .
Future studies Von Hippel would now like to do similar tests on a larger number of people using magnetic resonance imaging , or MRI , to check if atrophy in the frontal lobes correlates with bluntness in older adults .
" Although technology has the bad rap of being dry or technical , at the very least , intimidating , it is great to illuminate how creative a process it is , and how doable ," she says .
Caffeine is more likely to disrupt a daytime snooze than a normal night ' s sleep Shiftworkers or people with jet lag who drink coffee to keep themselves awake may not be able to catnap the next day , say Canadian researchers .
To investigate , they asked 34 people drink caffeine or placebo before going to sleep at their normal bedtime .
They were then told to fall asleep an hour after their normal wake - up time , after being given placebo or caffeine .
People received 100 milligrams of caffeine or placebo before their scheduled morning or evening bedtime , and then another 100 milligrams ( or placebo ) one hour before .
Caffeine didn ' t affect night time sleep duration or REM .
Taon says it will either remain undisturbed in the cave where it was found or be moved to the Australian Museum in Sydney for public display .
But a final decision about whether the axe should stay or go will be made by local Aboriginal groups , he says .
" Let ' s put these things in a museum , as long as they can be used for a display , or showed to students , and they ' ll be safe ."
Horned beetles can have big weapons or big testes , not both Beetles with the biggest horns have the smallest testes , say scientists who show that in evolutionary terms you can ' t have it all .
Like ethanol , butanol can be produced from the sugars contained in cellulose waste from crops like corn or sugar cane , and even logging waste .
He says there are benefits in using genetically modified or GM bugs in the fermentation of fuels like butanol , which he says is more " oil - like " than ethanol and mixes better with petrol , but is more difficult to produce .
Butane is made from a raw product that is then broken down to starch or sugars , fermented and purified .
Although the entire life cycle is not yet fully understood , it is clear that over two or three years the caterpillar goes through the usual stages of moulting , pupating and metamorphosing into a most unusual moth , all within the confines of a 5 millimetre wide stem .
Professor Zhang Wenjing , glacier expert at the Chinese Academy of Sciences , discounted previous forecasts that glaciers across western China could disappear in decades or the Himalayan glaciers could melt away in 50 years , reports the Xinhua news agency .
A blood screening test could reassure patients who have a growth removed , or tell a doctor to start chemotherapy quickly because the cancer has already started to spread .
His team ' s analysis also revealed the fish ' s pectoral fin had the same pattern of bones as the forelimbs or arms of land animals , called tetrapods .
For the past 20 years or so , many farmers have sheared their sheep in autumn in the hope of getting better quality fibres and a higher price for their wool .
Aberrant science can involve the use of methods or the arrival at conclusions the majority don ' t agree with and is often shunned as if it was fraudulent , he says .
While fraud is clearly an undesirable form of aberrant science , Little says those whose only crime is to use unusual methods or reach unusual conclusions should not be treated with the same contempt .
Such a device could one day be used to elude radar or in wireless communications .
It is this scattering that allows objects to be seen , whether with the eye or using radar or ultrasound .
The cloak reduces both back scatter , or reflection of microwaves , and forward scatter , or shadows .
But it is not clear whether the brain atrophy is releasing dormant talent , or the disease itself has somehow triggered the artistic expression .
This damage could in turn impair an artist ' s ability to paint emotionally affecting paintings , or to portray emotion visually .
Often , says Heine , science about research on genes affecting gender , obesity or homosexuality is " grossly simplified " in the media .
He says it ' s too early to tell whether arsenic detected in the hair is from a chemical used during the taxidermy process to preserve the horse , or the results of foul play .
" And given that we don ' t actually understand exactly what procedure was used to preserve Phar Lap , how do we know whether the stuff was used in the preserving or whether it was given to him beforehand ?"
But whether or not it ' s conclusive , would it stand up in a court of law , personally I have my doubts ," he says .
Lewis describes a synchrotron , or particle accelerator , as essentially a large x - ray machine that can concentrate a large number of x - rays onto a tiny object like a single hair .
Not even the demise of the dinosaurs 65 million years ago If you can ' t decide if you prefer meteor impacts , volcanoes or some other explanation for Earth ' s biggest mass extinction events , take heart : you no longer have to choose .
A new statistical study of mass extinctions throughout the history of life on Earth is backing the idea that no single meteor , volcanic eruption or other lone gunman is ever to blame .
Single or multiple event ?
The researchers found similar extinction rates when a pulse or press occurred by itself , and when neither was occurring , says Arens .
Impacts alone could not have been the killing mechanism for the K - T [ Cretaceous - Tertiary event ] or any of the other major mass extinctions ."
People contract an average of two or three such infections a year .
" Certainly many of the videos that are uploaded [ onto YouTube ] probably infringe copyright if they ' re reproductions or communications of the whole , or even a little bit of the [ original ]."
The twin NASA Viking probes landed on the surface of Mars in 1976 to search for signs of past or present life .
" We suggest that the design of future organic instruments for Mars should include other methods to be able to detect extinct and / or extant life ," the authors conclude .
Europe ' s ExoMars mission , slated for launch in 2011 or 2013 , is designed to characterise the biological environment on Mars .
" Do you know how hard it is to secure four or five animal ovaries at butcher shops ?
To counter the immunosuppressor problem , doctors may give the graft recipient tiny doses of material from the donor so that his or her immune system becomes accustomed to the tissue and therefore stops attacking it .
The face is the mark of one ' s identity , so wearing someone else ' s face , or seeing someone else with the face of a deceased relative , for instance , may be deeply disturbing for some .
The honey bee , or Apis mellifera , evolved more slowly than the other insects but has more genes related to smell .
The insects also have fewer genes than the fruit fly or mosquito for immunity .
Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ( MIT ) say a little squirt into the engine when the car is accelerating sharply or climbing a steep hill could improve fuel economy by 20 - 30 %.
And Cohn estimates the ethanol tank in cars using the technology would need to be refilled every three months or so .
Other fossils suggest some of the animals were butchered in autumn , most likely by humans , who may have caused or contributed to the extinction of mastodons 11 , 000 years ago .
" I always viewed them as being rather passive animals because I never found many broken bones , maybe one or two broken ribs .
The nitrogen is the easiest to lose to groundwater or the air .
In the first , they took female marsupials from the wild and when they were in season allowed them to mate either with a single male , or with three different males , every two days .
This allowed the researchers to determine whether the previous benefit of polyandry depended on stressful conditions in their natural habitat , or could be replicated in the laboratory .
They might think ' what ' s the point , I ' m never going to look like that , I may as well eat ' or the image makes them think they ' re thinner than they are so they eat more ."
Two hours after their last meal Monro asked 68 female university students to rank the importance of physical attractiveness , health and physical fitness to determine whether they value the way their body looks more or less than the way it functions .
The women ' s answers categorised women as low or high self - objectifiers , with high self - objectifiers valuing appearance more .
Body - obsessed people ( or high objectifiers ) ate more food ( sweet and savoury biscuits ) and sweet biscuits , after viewing idealised body adverts than adverts without models .
Breithaupt and his team now think that the Red Gulch dinosaurs were probably human - sized meat eaters , or theropods , travelling along in groups .
The sands beneath their feet were carbonate sands like those found in the Bahamas or the Florida Keys , but the climate of the ancient shoreline was probably a lot drier .
But there is no guarantee the flight could be launched on time or that another problem might not also strike the rescue ship .
Without a servicing mission , astronomers expect Hubble to last only another two or three years before its batteries give out .
Even before then , the finicky gyroscopes could break or the cameras could fail .
Dr Wenju Cai and colleagues from CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research are the first to model the impact of changing levels of particulate air pollution , or aerosols , on ocean currents .
For example , one may like chocolate icing , sprinkles or cream more than the other .
The surplus procedure system can be used for two or three people , Jones says , but doesn ' t work quite as well for three or more .
He says the method can also be applied to other heterogeneous and divisible items , like dividing land or deciding how much rent each flatmate pays .
The ink is typically pooled in a main reservoir and distributed through a chamber , or manifold , that has many branching tubes , each leading to a nozzle .
First , it does not have a main reservoir or manifold that requires delicate pressure maintenance .
" Inkjet print heads typically make two to eight passes over the same pixel row in order to hide any defects caused by nozzles that don ' t operate or meet drop ejection specifications ," says Allen .
" If Einat ' s print head lays down all of the ink at once , the printed page could show artefacts or flaws from ' bad ' nozzles ."
Without a repair mission , which will probably be carried out in 2008 , the telescope would shut down in 2009 or even earlier .
NASA also is faced with a busy schedule of another 15 missions to finish building the space station before retiring the entire shuttle program in 2010 , or four missions a year .
When babies sleep face down or have their faces covered by bedding , they are thought to breathe exhaled carbon dioxide back in , depriving them of oxygen .
Among the SIDS infants in the new study , 65 % were sleeping prone or on their side at the time of death , indicating a need for continued public information on the problem , the study says .
The findings may spur development of a diagnostic test to identify infants at risk , or perhaps some day a drug or other type of treatment to protect infants with abnormal brainstem serotonin systems , the authors say .
' Serious games ' are being developed to teach the US military how to defuse tense situations in Iraq Gamers are increasingly dropping virtual swords and guns , and picking up serious subjects such as cancer or the Iraq war , injecting a dose of reality into the multi - billion dollar sector .
That game , largely funded by the US Department of Defense , encourages soldiers who face various scenarios with virtual Iraqis to use diplomacy to avoid or defuse tense situations .
Johnson says a number of countries have expressed interest in his company ' s products , which include Tactical Pashto and Tactical French for soldiers or civilian contractors working in Afghanistan or in French - speaking African countries .
" Instead of writing a term paper , you might design a game about running a state park , owning a hotel or running an office ," he says .
" If there are more cars approaching or waiting behind a red light , this will turn into green faster than if there are only few cars ," say the researchers .
You can use it to enhance the health of a mouse or mammal .
But the real test will be to develop formulations or find other molecules to treat age - related illnesses such as diabetes , Alzheimer ' s , heart disease and cancer in humans .
When the scientists looked at the genetic level , to see which genes in the mice were switched on or off , they found the molecule had changed the gene expression pattern of the obese mice towards that of lean mice .
Lum and team studied mitochondrial DNA , or mtDNA , from two kinds of sacred pigs from the island nation of Vanuatu .
Groves says that while most of the domestic pigs that are widespread in the world today come from Europe , they are actually ultimately of either Chinese origin or half Chinese and half European .
" Whether we looked at tide pools or studies over the entire world ' s ocean , we saw the same picture emerging ," says Worm , from Dalhousie University in Halifax , Nova Scotia .
Transits of Mercury occur in either May or November ( when Mercury is closer to the Sun ) and the next one will not occur until 2016 .
The autonomous agricultural robot or AgBot has been designed by engineers at the University of Illinois at Urbana - Champaign .
The targeted approach requires fewer chemicals and minimises the risk that they will get into the environment , whether carried by wind or water .
The herbicide can become airborne or , if it rains , leech into ground water .
If inhaled or ingested in large quantities , some herbicides can be harmful to people .
Some 29 % of 8000 fished species were considered " collapsed " in 2003 , that is , their catches had declined by 90 % or more ," says Assistant Professor Boris Worm of Dalhousie University in Canada , lead author of the report .
So , the researchers carried out the study to determine whether calorie reduction is indeed responsible for extending animals ' life , with a lowering of the body temperature being a secondary effect , or whether the latter is actually the cause of the increased longevity .
Plugging a word or phrase into a search engine may soon give you fewer results if proposed new Australian copyright laws are adopted , according to internet giant Google .
" Given the vast size of the internet it is impossible for a search engine to contact personally each owner of a web page to determine whether the owner desires its web page to be searched , indexed or cached ," Google submits .
" The virus is gutted so that it only has half the size of the original or pathogenic virus ," June says .
When HIV or any other virus infects a cell , it injects its own genetic material into the cell .
We don ' t know if that is why their immune system gets better , because there are more soldiers , or whether it got better because of better antiviral effects ," June says .
June says it is not yet clear if the treatment could work only in infected patients , or might even be used as a preventive vaccine some day .
" It appears to me that if this merger were to proceed , scientific research at the Australian Museum would be marginalised or might even disappear ," Fuiman writes .
A staff member at the Australian Museum , speaking on the condition of anonymity , says there are fears that research will be cut altogether or at least downgraded under an amalgamation .
Report due Dr Des Griffin , who resigned in 1998 after 22 years as director of the Australian Museum , says the plan to bring the two bodies under a new , single governing body will have little benefit for either the museums or the public .
By comparison , x - ray flares on the Sun last only second or minutes , at most .
" If I need a kidney , I can travel to Pakistan or India and receive one from a live donor ," she says .
The causes for this slowing of the Atlantic conveyor belt could be a run - off of cold water from melting Siberian permafrost or the Greenland icesheet , triggered by rising atmospheric temperatures .
It has a modern form , or allele , that appeared about 37 , 000 years ago , right before Neanderthals became extinct .
The genetic ties are far closer than scientists expect and make the sea urchin a closer genetic cousin of humans than the worm or fruit fly , according to the study in today ' s issue of the journal Science .
They say this may be one reason they live 100 years or more .
" So what we did in our study was to let toddlers show us what they know using a re - enactment , or imitation paradigm ," says Australian author Dr Gabrielle Simcock , a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Queensland .
Some 36 children in each of three age groups ( 18 months , 24 months and 30 months ) were read either a picture book featuring colour photographs of a rattle being made , a picture book with coloured pencil drawings of a rattle being made , or not read a book at all .
Overall , children across all groups shown the colour photograph book were more successful in their attempts to make a rattle than those shown a colour drawing book or no book .
The idea is you would be able to recharge your laptop without plugging it in You may one day be able to recharge your laptop or mobile phone without having to plug it into the wall , says a US physicist .
Today ' s wireless transfer of energy , such as the transfer of light energy from the Sun for solar power or the transfer of microwaves from transmitters for communication , involve relatively low levels of energy .
The shirt is part of a wider CSIRO program on intelligent fabrics that aims to tackle more serious applications like health monitoring or 3D computer interfaces .
The price might start out relatively high , but over a year or two could drop down to " Christmas present level ", the researcher says .
"[ Experienced players ] can pick up ... cues that the intermediate and novice players don ' t or aren ' t sensitive to ," he says .
Inherent or learnt skill ?
Mller says honing our skills of predictive judgement can make us better drivers or help us cross roads more safely .
He says humans probably developed predictive judgement as an evolutionary skill to help avoid injury or attack .
The protein soup that makes up semen can trigger serious allergic reactions in some women Women can become allergic to their partners or other men , according to new research presented this week at a US conference .
" Some women think there ' s another problem [ such as an infection or condom allergy ]," Resnick says .
The software in conventional robots typically doesn ' t account for unpredictable changes in the environment , or to the robot itself , that could restrict its movement .
Modelling tools available in the software could be used to optimise the chemical structure of the compound and analyse whether those changes make it interact better or worse with a potential target .
The software will be designed to perform calculations using standard PCs or draw upon the computing power of PC clusters - also known as grid computing - to crunch more complex data expeditiously .
Breen says the survey is not about beliefs or whether parapsychological phenomena exist , rather it is about what people have experienced and the impact it has had on their lives .
Some 70 % also claim to have seen , heard or been touched by animal or person that wasn ' t there , 80 % report having had a premonition , and almost 50 % recalled a previous life .
Massage may make baby happier , but the evidence to date suggests it won ' t improve physical or emotional development A gentle massage appears to lower levels of stress hormones in unsettled babies , but there ' s no evidence that infant massage has any benefit on growth or development , a scientific analysis shows .
The trials involved infants aged six months and under who were randomly assigned to receive massage or not .
Tentative support But the nine studies failed to come up with any evidence of cognitive or behavioural benefits .
" There is no evidence of any impact on infant attachment , temperament , psychomotor or mental development ," the researchers say .
It ' s also unclear how often , when or for how long babies should receive massage to get the most benefits .
They used so - called RNAi or RNA interference technology that can ' silence ' a gene to cut the amount of gossypol in the cottonseed .
At the scene of the fire , toxic substances such as benzene , lead , uranium and asbestos can be inhaled or absorbed through the skin .
" Chimpanzee copulations are frequently preceded by a series of male courtship signals ( eg , glancing with erect penis and branch shaking ), after which either the male or the female approaches the other to mate ," the researchers write .
Early findings from the study , by researchers from the Centre for Values , Ethics and the Law in Medicine at the University of Sydney , show some people are also opposed to biopsy tissue , such as cut - out tumours , being used as a source of stem cells or by drug companies .
The tissue can be used for in - house research or passed on to other institutions and private companies .
" I think 30 or 40 years ago nobody would have thought anything of it , they would have thought why would I care , it ' s just the leftover bits of my tumour ," she says .
Mission scientists first hailed the orbiter via the Deep Space Network , receiving what they believed was a weak carrier signal from the probe two or three days into the search .
Some are hunted for food , others are accidentally caught in fishing nets , while others still are affected by a loss of habitat or viral diseases .
Dethmers and her colleagues gathered skin or blood samples from turtles nesting at 27 different sites in Malaysia , the Philippines , Micronesia , Indonesia , Papua New Guinea and Australia .
Most nuclear power stations are cooled using water from a river , lake or the ocean , the report says .
Left - handed people often perform better than right - handers at fast or difficult tasks that involve lots of information or stimuli , new research suggests .
" Typically we tend to use more our two hemispheres together when tasks are very fast or very hard and one hemisphere does not have enough resources to cope ," Cherbuin says .
" Examples might be dealing with multiple stimuli that are presented very briefly or tasks which require interpretation of a lot of information such as talking while driving in heavy traffic , piloting a jet fighter or playing fast computer games .
The computer tests in 80 right and 20 left - handers measured how fast information transferred between hemispheres by hitting a button to indicate whether a light flash was left or right of a dot .
Until now , analysis of the genome has focused overwhelmingly on comparing differences , or polymorphisms , in the patterns of single letters in the chemical code for making and sustaining human life .
This better explains why some individuals are vulnerable to certain diseases and respond well to specific drugs , while others swiftly fall sick or never respond to treatment , the authors believe .
Their focus has been to dig out deletions or duplications of code among relatively long sequences of individual DNA and then compare these so - called copy number variations ( CNVs ) across a range of volunteers of different ancestry .
The researchers were astonished to locate 1447 CNVs in nearly 2900 genes , or around one eighth of the human genetic code .
Some of the missing or duplicated stretches are very long , suggesting that , like backroom switches in a protein factory , CNVs must have a big impact on gene expression .
This implies that , over the past 200 , 000 years or so , subtle variants have arisen in the genome to allow different populations of humans adapt to their different environments , according to scientists at Wellcome Trust Sanger .
It ' s a large elliptical galaxy about 80 million light - years away , believed to have recently collided and merged with a spiral galaxy , which may have something to do with the accelerated rate of supernovae , or not .
This potentially has huge uses in the efficient transfer of energy , whether that ' s on a large scale like electronic cables or on a smaller scale , like in a computer chip .
But superconductivity in the treated silicon occurs only at 0 . 3 & deg ; K , or 0 . 3 & deg ; C above absolute zero .
Superconductivity has been found in only a number of materials which , at very cold temperatures , allow electricity to flow through them without offering any resistance or losing some of the energy as heat .
Stripes on the shoulder of this basketball jersey light up for each foul the player commits An Australian researcher has developed a sports jersey that lights up to show players ' goals or fouls , and how much time they have left to play .
" Athletes said they were more confident when they could see that they had high points or they could see that they were winning ," he says .
" So if that is grown in a developing country or is used as food aid , it will really provide more of those needed things in places where it ' s necessary ."
" We ' re not changing the composition or anything very dramatic in the grain ," he says .
Simple species that did not move or search for food were largely wiped out , they conclude .
This includes insects , which come from the rainforest canopy , and bubbles of water or gas , which he says could provide clues about past climates .
Nearly one in five of the amber pieces found contain fossils or bubbles of water or gas , says Godthelp .
But at high doses it is highly toxic if ingested or inhaled ; it emits alpha particles that can damage the body ' s tissues and organs .
It snips it in two , which is bad news , or glues two strands together .
" The limited information that has been released about Mr Litvinenko ' s condition and the timing of his death is consistent with either radiation poisoning or chemicals that stop cell division ," he says .
Dr Sarah Roberts - Thomson of the university ' s school of pharmacy , who is supervising the work , says early results suggest some compounds in mangoes work by activating or inhibiting groups of receptors known as peroxisome proliferator - activated receptors , or PPARs .
" We don ' t know yet how the whole thing ' s going to play out but we know some of the individual components activate these receptors or even inhibit them ," she says .
But ' field ' studies like this may be the only way to get the full picture of the effects of the drug ecstasy , or MDMA , says University of Adelaide pharmacologist Professor Rod Irvine .
The concentration of MDMA , or methylenedioxymethamphetamine , in clubbers ' blood also exceeded those reported in clinical research , Irvine says .
" In recreational settings , individuals experience or tolerate physiological effects of greater magnitude and achieve considerably higher blood concentrations of MDMA ... than those reported in controlled clinical studies ," the research , contained in a poster presentation , says .
And it suggests the basis for complex brains either evolved more than once , or has gone unused by most animal species .
They are not seen in lesser apes or monkeys .
Either the spindle neurones were only kept in the animals with the largest brains or they evolved several times independently , the researchers say .
Each gene is expressed in a specific part of the mantle , with each area responsible for creating a specific shape , pattern or colour on the shell .
In medicine , it could be used to create tiny ' machines ' that are introduced into our bodies to deliver medicine , diagnose disease or even fight cancer cell by cell .
This is because the minute size of the particles means they could evade our normal respiratory and immune defences to enter the lungs or even penetrate our skin .
" No concessions or reductions in these requirements will apply to nanomaterials in therapeutic products ."
Haarmann says the bees could be carried in hand - held detectors the size of a shoe box , and could be used to sniff out explosives in airports , roadside security checks , or even placed in robot bomb disposal equipment .
The machine was also a star almanac , showing the times when the major stars and constellations of the Greek zodiac would rise or set and , speculatively , may also have shown the positions of the planets .
" Are these two totally distinct groups that came in or are they representatives of one major group that came in that has all that diversity within it ?"
The application was routine , not unlike a man who regularly squirts on deodorant or cologne .
" In the majority of cases , the arm that did not hold the scent - bearing material was held high or grabbed a branch above the animal ," Laska and his team write .
In most of these cases , the scientists speculate that the leaf mash might have been used to mitigate topical skin infections or repel bugs .
The scientists , therefore , conclude that self - anointing " may play a role in the context of social communication , possibly for signalling of social status or to increase sexual attractiveness ".
" I also wonder whether it may function to stimulate or clean the gland that they rub the plant mixture on ."
They used magnetic resonance imaging , or MRI , to take detailed pictures of the patients ' brains one and three years after treatment .
" Very high - dose chemotherapy , requiring bone marrow transplantation or peripheral stem cell support , is now standard therapy for children with certain brain tumours , especially for the very young ," she adds .
" Sometimes it was within days or weeks [ of burial ]," she says .
" We ' re forced to do a repeat of a funeral ceremony because other people have gone in and taken our Old People ' s bodies without listening to us or getting our permission ," he said .
It ' s highly unlikely that the average person like you or I is going to be exposed to any of these engineered ones ," she says .
Because of their size , nanoparticles can evade the body ' s normal respiratory and immune defences and once inhaled or absorbed through the skin , potentially finding their way into the nervous and circulatory systems and becoming deposited in organs including the brain .
All six subjects scored highly on the Hare Psychopathy Checklist , a test that looks for the presence of cunning , manipulative or exploitative behaviours as well as lack of guilt or remorse .
Tom Fahy , professor of forensic mental health and co - author of the study , which is published in the latest issue of the British Journal of Psychiatry , says criminal psychopathy may be inherited or acquired through very deprived and abusive childhoods .
Professor Stephen Lincoln , an expert in nuclear energy and uranium from the University of Adelaide , says it ' s possible to recycle some of this waste by turning it into a mixed uranium - plutonium oxide , or MOX .
" With the generation IV reactors you will go for a fuel element that is enriched particles of uranium interspersed with silicon and carbon in a small ball or hexagonal shaped fuel element ," he says .
" You can circulate these balls in and out of the reactor or just drop in a set of orange - sized or tennis ball - sized and take out ones that have been there a long time ."
And because pebble - bed reactors are cooled by gas like helium or carbon dioxide they reduce the risk of overheating and a Chernobyl - style meltdown , he says .
Eventually , nuclear power may be used to augment or replace the solar energy systems .
Rosas suggests the virtual absence of animal remains at the site , a cave called El Sidr & oacute ; n , may point either to ritual killings or unsuccessful hunting .
Their teeth revealed that tooth growth often stopped abruptly due to illness or malnutrition .
But whether the cognitive development is cause or consequence isn ' t clear to us ."
But whether or not nanoparticles present a risk , for example , will be partly determined by what people do with them , says Healy .
The point of this was to see whether the bats used Earth ' s magnetic field as a guide and , if so , to see whether the bats used sunset or the stars as an additional cue .
A message sent using entangled , or spooky , particles of light has been beamed across the ocean Scientists have used quantum physics to zap an encrypted message more than 140 kilometres between two Spanish islands .
This means that their properties remained tightly entwined or entangled , even when separated by large distances , a property Einstein called spooky .
The results suggest it should be possible to send encrypted photons to a satellite orbiting 300 or 400 kilometres above the Earth , he says .
The virus is transmitted by direct contact with blood , organs or other bodily fluids .
There is no cure or good treatment , although several groups are working on vaccines .
But it is not clear whether the gorillas are infecting one another , or being repeatedly infected and reinfected by another species of animal , perhaps a bat .
He says once a person with HIV gets malaria , his or her viral load goes up and stays higher for six to eight weeks , making the person far more infectious to others .
New international research suggests knowing someone very well actually makes predicting his or her tastes more difficult .
The study , published in the December issue of the Journal of Consumer Research , goes some way to explaining why people often miss the mark and end up buying weird , inappropriate , or just plain bad gifts for the ones they love most .
But customers will tolerate some inaccuracy or incomplete answers as long as they are sufficiently knowledgeable , he says .
But most of those early lineages are now extinct and mammals living today fall into only one of three groups : placentals , marsupials or monotremes .
The researchers say the discovery implies the existence of one or more ' ghost lineages ' and suggests that mammals may have existed on New Zealand more than 125 million years ago .
Many species were found in places long thought too hostile for life including by a vent spewing liquids at 407 & deg ; C and other habitats that are dark , cold or deep .
Some places seem as inhospitable as planets such as Mars or Venus , the researchers say .
Lawson says it ' s possible that HPV is spread by sexual activity or during showers or baths , when the virus could be transferred from the genital area to the breasts via the nipple ducts .
Lawson says more research is needed to establish whether HPV is actually causing the breast cancer or if women with breast cancer are more prone to infection with the virus .
This caused the northern people to migrate into either New Guinea or to northern parts of Australia .
" Sooner or later those emissions will be cleaned up and a trend of increasing rainfall in the northwest and centre could be reversed ," he says .
Once the subjects were categorised into either morning , evening or intermediate types , they underwent three tests designed to measure creative thinking .
Experts say the reduced HIV risk may be because cells on the inside of the foreskin , the part of the penis cut off in circumcision , are particularly susceptible to HIV infection Circumcising men cuts their risk of being infected with HIV in half , and could prevent hundreds of thousands or even millions of new infections , researchers say .
He says the benefits could be negated by small decreases in condom use by men or if men add more sexual partners .
Transmission by injection drug use or receptive anal intercourse will not be affected by adult male circumcision ," Fauci adds .
The newly discovered glider was an agile flyer and had pointed , sharp teeth that it used to eat insects Gliding squirrel - like mammals that lived with the dinosaurs at least 130 million years ago may have conquered the skies around the same time as birds , or even earlier , scientists say .
The newly discovered flyer , called Volaticotherium antiquus or ancient gliding beast , extends the earliest record of gliding flight for mammals to at least 70 million years earlier than once thought .
P & eacute ; rez - Guisado , a Spanish researcher in the Department of Medicine and Animal Surgery at the University of Cordoba , and his colleagues measured levels of dominance and aggression in 51 seven - week - old English cocker spaniel puppies that were either full siblings or half siblings .
If the experiment could be reproduced in humans , such cells might provide an alternative way to produce tailored tissues for transplanting , or for studying disease , Daley says .
Scientists have experimented with parthenogenesis in mice before , but this is the first time that the procedure has yielded the embryonic stem cells or so - called master cells that have the potential to develop into any other type of cell in the body .
The research team plans to recruit female volunteers to donate their eggs for research purposes a year or so from now , with the hope that these eggs will deliver better results .
This is followed by a cloud of plasma or coronal mass ejection ( CME ) that takes a day or so to reach Earth .
While Coles ' agency suspected something might happen when they saw a sunspot pointing directly at the Earth and a build up in magnetic fields , they couldn ' t tell exactly if or when an explosion would occur .
Such communications pass through or bounce off the ionosphere .
This creates ' clones ' that perform tasks based on what their neighbours are doing or sensing It has the classic elements of a good spy story : secret agents that infiltrate a network and clone themselves to do the work of many .
The technology could help fight fires , monitor environmental conditions , or even help blind people navigate buildings .
Each mote includes a battery , a computer , a radio and a sensor that monitors variables such as light , vibration and temperature , takes pictures , or listens for sounds .
Such networks can consist of hundreds or even thousands of motes , and they can be placed just about anywhere it might be useful to pick up information from the environment .
Most of them perform a single task , for example monitoring temperature or vibrations in the air .
This creates ' clones ' that perform tasks based on what their neighbours are doing or sensing .
Experts say that such nanowires could one day be used to make electrical and electromechanical devices like environmental sensors or even ultra - precise clocks .
Tuning forks and metronomes Professor Paul Mulvaney from the University of Melbourne ' s school of chemistry , who wasn ' t involved in the research , says the nanowires could be used as sensors to detect gases , air pollutants or biological agents .
They could also be used as nanoscale metronomes that vibrate in high - frequency timing devices or in computer chips , he says .
Reporting in the journal Current Biology today , Bellwood describes the batfish as a " sleeping functional group ", or a species with a hitherto unrecognised role in reef life .
The illness can be relapsing and remitting or progressive , with symptoms that range from fatigue and slurred speech to tremors , stiffness , poor coordination and in the most severe cases paralysis .
This link between pitch or frequency and perceived emotion appears to carry across many different species , according to Pongr & aacute ; cz , who cited an earlier theory proposed by avian expert Professor Eugene Morton .
" This relationship could have formed the basis of an evolutionary ritualisation process whereby low - pitched vocalisations tended to signal aggression because larger animals are more likely to win contests ... and high - pitched vocalisations became predictors of submission or friendly intent ."
Yet organising those songs remains a throw back to the days of vinyl , an uninspired structure of artist , album or track .
The software analyses certain features from the audio signal , such as how much bass or treble exists and sound patterns that have to do with rhythm and tempo .
There are some things the software doesn ' t address , Fuinaga points out , such as the user ' s profile ( is she a teenager or an opera buff ?)
Museum goers will be able to play with music files already stored in the computer or download their own files to see what their collection looks like .
Researchers say the cosmic glow could be the first stars or quasars , but are not sure which .
The way your gut microbes digest food could influence your body weight , scientists say Bacteria in your gut may determine whether you are skinny or obese , according to scientists who say that food , exercise and genetics may not be the only things to influence body weight .
The finding , reported today in the journal Nature , could lead to a better understanding of why some people may be prone to obesity and help find new ways of preventing or treating it .
But scientists do not yet know if people start out with lower levels of bacteroidetes or firmicutes that may make them prone to obesity .
Flora has never mated , or even mixed , with a male dragon , and fertilised all the eggs herself , a process culminating in parthenogenesis , or virgin birth .
" It ' s a tremendously large animal , not quite to the scale of the ' land whales ', things like Argentinosaurus and Puertasaurus or Sauroposeidon .
The US researchers are not sure whether these tiny particles , 50 to 100 nanometres across , are living nanobacteria or just some strange non - living self - assembling ball of chemicals .
