Lady Elliot had been an excellent woman , sensible and amiable ; whose judgement and conduct , if they might be pardoned the youthful infatuation which made her Lady Elliot , had never required indulgence afterwards .-- She had humoured , or softened , or concealed his failings , and promoted his real respectability for seventeen years ; and though not the very happiest being in the world herself , had found enough in her duties , her friends , and her children , to attach her to life , and make it no matter of indifference to her when she was called on to quit them .
Be it known then , that Sir Walter , like a good father , ( having met with one or two private disappointments in very unreasonable applications ), prided himself on remaining single for his dear daughters ' sake .
Mary had acquired a little artificial importance , by becoming Mrs Charles Musgrove ; but Anne , with an elegance of mind and sweetness of character , which must have placed her high with any people of real understanding , was nobody with either father or sister ; her word had no weight , her convenience was always to give way -- she was only Anne .
All equality of alliance must rest with Elizabeth , for Mary had merely connected herself with an old country family of respectability and large fortune , and had therefore given all the honour and received none : Elizabeth would , one day or other , marry suitably .
It was so with Elizabeth , still the same handsome Miss Elliot that she had begun to be thirteen years ago , and Sir Walter might be excused , therefore , in forgetting her age , or , at least , be deemed only half a fool , for thinking himself and Elizabeth as blooming as ever , amidst the wreck of the good looks of everybody else ; for he could plainly see how old all the rest of his family and acquaintance were growing .
She had the remembrance of all this , she had the consciousness of being nine - and - twenty to give her some regrets and some apprehensions ; she was fully satisfied of being still quite as handsome as ever , but she felt her approach to the years of danger , and would have rejoiced to be certain of being properly solicited by baronet - blood within the next twelvemonth or two .
Such were Elizabeth Elliot ' s sentiments and sensations ; such the cares to alloy , the agitations to vary , the sameness and the elegance , the prosperity and the nothingness of her scene of life ; such the feelings to give interest to a long , uneventful residence in one country circle , to fill the vacancies which there were no habits of utility abroad , no talents or accomplishments for home , to occupy .
She felt herself ill - used and unfortunate , as did her father ; and they were neither of them able to devise any means of lessening their expenses without compromising their dignity , or relinquishing their comforts in a way not to be borne .
Their two confidential friends , Mr Shepherd , who lived in the neighbouring market town , and Lady Russell , were called to advise them ; and both father and daughter seemed to expect that something should be struck out by one or the other to remove their embarrassments and reduce their expenditure , without involving the loss of any indulgence of taste or pride .
Mr Shepherd , a civil , cautious lawyer , who , whatever might be his hold or his views on Sir Walter , would rather have the disagreeable prompted by anybody else , excused himself from offering the slightest hint , and only begged leave to recommend an implicit reference to the excellent judgement of Lady Russell , from whose known good sense he fully expected to have just such resolute measures advised as he meant to see finally adopted .
What will he be doing , in fact , but what very many of our first families have done , or ought to do ?
There had been three alternatives , London , Bath , or another house in the country .
The park would be open to him of course , and few navy officers , or men of any other description , can have had such a range ; but what restrictions I might impose on the use of the pleasure - grounds , is another thing .
I am very little disposed to grant a tenant of Kellynch Hall any extraordinary favour , I assure you , be he sailor or soldier ."
` Sixty ,' said I , ` or perhaps sixty - two .'
He had the curacy of Monkford , you know , Sir Walter , some time back , for two or three years .
It would be difficult to say which had seen highest perfection in the other , or which had been the happiest : she , in receiving his declarations and proposals , or he in having them accepted .
Sir Walter , on being applied to , without actually withholding his consent , or saying it should never be , gave it all the negative of great astonishment , great coldness , great silence , and a professed resolution of doing nothing for his daughter .
Anne Elliot , so young ; known to so few , to be snatched off by a stranger without alliance or fortune ; or rather sunk by him into a state of most wearing , anxious , youth - killing dependence !
Young and gentle as she was , it might yet have been possible to withstand her father ' s ill - will , though unsoftened by one kind word or look on the part of her sister ; but Lady Russell , whom she had always loved and relied on , could not , with such steadiness of opinion , and such tenderness of manner , be continually advising her in vain .
More than seven years were gone since this little history of sorrowful interest had reached its close ; and time had softened down much , perhaps nearly all of peculiar attachment to him , but she had been too dependent on time alone ; no aid had been given in change of place ( except in one visit to Bath soon after the rupture ), or in any novelty or enlargement of society .
They knew not each other ' s opinion , either its constancy or its change , on the one leading point of Anne ' s conduct , for the subject was never alluded to ; but Anne , at seven - and - twenty , thought very differently from what she had been made to think at nineteen .
Lady Russell , convinced that Anne would not be allowed to be of any use , or any importance , in the choice of the house which they were going to secure , was very unwilling to have her hurried away so soon , and wanted to make it possible for her to stay behind till she might convey her to Bath herself after Christmas ; but having engagements of her own which must take her from Kellynch for several weeks , she was unable to give the full invitation she wished , and Anne though dreading the possible heats of September in all the white glare of Bath , and grieving to forego all the influence so sweet and so sad of the autumnal months in the country , did not think that , everything considered , she wished to remain .
Mary , often a little unwell , and always thinking a great deal of her own complaints , and always in the habit of claiming Anne when anything was the matter , was indisposed ; and foreseeing that she should not have a day ' s health all the autumn , entreated , or rather required her , for it was hardly entreaty , to come to Uppercross Cottage , and bear her company as long as she should want her , instead of going to Bath .
She had never been staying there before , without being struck by it , or without wishing that other Elliots could have her advantage in seeing how unknown , or unconsidered there , were the affairs which at Kellynch Hall were treated as of such general publicity and pervading interest ; yet , with all this experience , she believed she must now submit to feel that another lesson , in the art of knowing our own nothingness beyond our own circle , was become necessary for her ; for certainly , coming as she did , with a heart full of the subject which had been completely occupying both houses in Kellynch for many weeks , she had expected rather more curiosity and sympathy than she found in the separate but very similar remark of Mr and Mrs Musgrove : " So , Miss Anne , Sir Walter and your sister are gone ; and what part of Bath do you think they will settle in ?"
and this , without much waiting for an answer ; or in the young ladies ' addition of , " I hope we shall be in Bath in the winter ; but remember , papa , if we do go , we must be in a good situation : none of your Queen Squares for us !"
Charles Musgrove was civil and agreeable ; in sense and temper he was undoubtedly superior to his wife , but not of powers , or conversation , or grace , to make the past , as they were connected together , at all a dangerous contemplation ; though , at the same time , Anne could believe , with Lady Russell , that a more equal match might have greatly improved him ; and that a woman of real understanding might have given more consequence to his character , and more usefulness , rationality , and elegance to his habits and pursuits .
As it was , he did nothing with much zeal , but sport ; and his time was otherwise trifled away , without benefit from books or anything else .
Known to have some influence with her sister , she was continually requested , or at least receiving hints to exert it , beyond what was practicable .
I believe Mrs Charles is not quite pleased with my not inviting them oftener ; but you know it is very bad to have children with one that one is obligated to be checking every moment ; " don ' t do this ," and " don ' t do that ;" or that one can only keep in tolerable order by more cake than is good for them ."
It was certainly carried nearly as far as possible , for they met every morning , and hardly ever spent an evening asunder ; but she believed they should not have done so well without the sight of Mr and Mrs Musgrove ' s respectable forms in the usual places , or without the talking , laughing , and singing of their daughters .
She played a great deal better than either of the Miss Musgroves , but having no voice , no knowledge of the harp , and no fond parents , to sit by and fancy themselves delighted , her performance was little thought of , only out of civility , or to refresh the others , as she was well aware .
Excepting one short period of her life , she had never , since the age of fourteen , never since the loss of her dear mother , known the happiness of being listened to , or encouraged by any just appreciation or real taste .
There was a family of cousins within a walk of Uppercross , in less affluent circumstances , who depended on the Musgroves for all their pleasures : they would come at any time , and help play at anything , or dance anywhere ; and Anne , very much preferring the office of musician to a more active post , played country dances to them by the hour together ; a kindness which always recommended her musical powers to the notice of Mr and Mrs Musgrove more than anything else , and often drew this compliment ;-- " Well done , Miss Anne !
They came : the master of the house was not at home , but the two sisters were together ; and as it chanced that Mrs Croft fell to the share of Anne , while the Admiral sat by Mary , and made himself very agreeable by his good - humoured notice of her little boys , she was well able to watch for a likeness , and if it failed her in the features , to catch it in the voice , or in the turn of sentiment and expression .
Her manners were open , easy , and decided , like one who had no distrust of herself , and no doubts of what to do ; without any approach to coarseness , however , or any want of good humour .
Anne gave her credit , indeed , for feelings of great consideration towards herself , in all that related to Kellynch , and it pleased her : especially , as she had satisfied herself in the very first half minute , in the instant even of introduction , that there was not the smallest symptom of any knowledge or suspicion on Mrs Croft ' s side , to give a bias of any sort .
He was cut short by the eager attacks of the little boys , clinging to him like an old friend , and declaring he should not go ; and being too much engrossed by proposals of carrying them away in his coat pockets , & c ., to have another moment for finishing or recollecting what he had begun , Anne was left to persuade herself , as well as she could , that the same brother must still be in question .
), they happened to say , that her brother , Captain Wentworth , is just returned to England , or paid off , or something , and is coming to see them almost directly ; and most unluckily it came into mamma ' s head , when they were gone , that Wentworth , or something very like it , was the name of poor Richard ' s captain at one time ; I do not know when or where , but a great while before he died , poor fellow !
He had , in fact , though his sisters were now doing all they could for him , by calling him " poor Richard ," been nothing better than a thick - headed , unfeeling , unprofitable Dick Musgrove , who had never done anything to entitle himself to more than the abbreviation of his name , living or dead .
In each letter he had spoken well of his captain ; but yet , so little were they in the habit of attending to such matters , so unobservant and incurious were they as to the names of men or ships , that it had made scarcely any impression at the time ; and that Mrs Musgrove should have been suddenly struck , this very day , with a recollection of the name of Wentworth , as connected with her son , seemed one of those extraordinary bursts of mind which do sometimes occur .
To hear them talking so much of Captain Wentworth , repeating his name so often , puzzling over past years , and at last ascertaining that it might , that it probably would , turn out to be the very same Captain Wentworth whom they recollected meeting , once or twice , after their coming back from Clifton -- a very fine young man -- but they could not say whether it was seven or eight years ago , was a new sort of trial to Anne ' s nerves .
How does he know that he is going on well , or that there may not be a sudden change half an hour hence ?
He must be either indifferent or unwilling .
There had been music , singing , talking , laughing , all that was most agreeable ; charming manners in Captain Wentworth , no shyness or reserve ; they seemed all to know each other perfectly , and he was coming the very next morning to shoot with Charles .
Doubtless it was so , and she could take no revenge , for he was not altered , or not for the worse .
Frederick Wentworth had used such words , or something like them , but without an idea that they would be carried round to her .
Whether former feelings were to be renewed must be brought to the proof ; former times must undoubtedly be brought to the recollection of each ; they could not but be reverted to ; the year of their engagement could not but be named by him , in the little narratives or descriptions which conversation called forth .
There was a very general ignorance of all naval matters throughout the party ; and he was very much questioned , and especially by the two Miss Musgroves , who seemed hardly to have any eyes but for him , as to the manner of living on board , daily regulations , food , hours , & c ., and their surprise at his accounts , at learning the degree of accommodation and arrangement which was practicable , drew from him some pleasant ridicule , which reminded Anne of the early days when she too had been ignorant , and she too had been accused of supposing sailors to be living on board without anything to eat , or any cook to dress it if there were , or any servant to wait , or any knife and fork to use .
Reported fit for home service for a year or two , and so I was sent off to the West Indies ."
I knew that we should either go to the bottom together , or that she would be the making of me ; and I never had two days of foul weather all the time I was at sea in her ; and after taking privateers enough to be very entertaining , I had the good luck in my passage home the next autumn , to fall in with the very French frigate I wanted .
But , fair or not fair , there are unbecoming conjunctions , which reason will patronize in vain -- which taste cannot tolerate -- which ridicule will seize .
The Admiral , after taking two or three refreshing turns about the room with his hands behind him , being called to order by his wife , now came up to Captain Wentworth , and without any observation of what he might be interrupting , thinking only of his own thoughts , began with --
He defended himself ; though professing that he would never willingly admit any ladies on board a ship of his , excepting for a ball , or a visit , which a few hours might comprehend .
I hate to hear of women on board , or to see them on board ; and no ship under my command shall ever convey a family of ladies anywhere , if I can help it ."
I declare I have not a comfort or an indulgence about me , even at Kellynch Hall ," ( with a kind bow to Anne ), " beyond what I always had in most of the ships I have lived in ; and they have been five altogether ."
Pray , what would become of us poor sailors ' wives , who often want to be conveyed to one port or another , after our husbands , if everybody had your feelings ?"
We do not call Bermuda or Bahama , you know , the West Indies ."
The only time I ever really suffered in body or mind , the only time that I ever fancied myself unwell , or had any ideas of danger , was the winter that I passed by myself at Deal , when the Admiral ( Captain Croft then ) was in the North Seas .
I lived in perpetual fright at that time , and had all manner of imaginary complaints from not knowing what to do with myself , or when I should hear from him next ; but as long as we could be together , nothing ever ailed me , and I never met with the smallest inconvenience ."
The Musgroves could hardly be more ready to invite than he to come , particularly in the morning , when he had no companion at home , for the Admiral and Mrs Croft were generally out of doors together , interesting themselves in their new possessions , their grass , and their sheep , and dawdling about in a way not endurable to a third person , or driving out in a gig , lately added to their establishment .
Henrietta was perhaps the prettiest , Louisa had the higher spirits ; and she knew not now , whether the more gentle or the more lively character were most likely to attract him .
Mr and Mrs Musgrove , either from seeing little , or from an entire confidence in the discretion of both their daughters , and of all the young men who came near them , seemed to leave everything to take its chance .
There was not the smallest appearance of solicitude or remark about them in the Mansion - house ; but it was different at the Cottage : the young couple there were more disposed to speculate and wonder ; and Captain Wentworth had not been above four or five times in the Miss Musgroves ' company , and Charles Hayter had but just reappeared , when Anne had to listen to the opinions of her brother and sister , as to which was the one liked best .
" It would not be a great match for Henrietta , but Charles has a very fair chance , through the Spicers , of getting something from the Bishop in the course of a year or two ; and you will please to remember , that he is the eldest son ; whenever my uncle dies , he steps into very pretty property .
As to Captain Wentworth ' s views , she deemed it of more consequence that he should know his own mind early enough not to be endangering the happiness of either sister , or impeaching his own honour , than that he should prefer Henrietta to Louisa , or Louisa to Henrietta .
Her pleasure in the walk must arise from the exercise and the day , from the view of the last smiles of the year upon the tawny leaves , and withered hedges , and from repeating to herself some few of the thousand poetical descriptions extant of autumn , that season of peculiar and inexhaustible influence on the mind of taste and tenderness , that season which had drawn from every poet , worthy of being read , some attempt at description , or some lines of feeling .
But nobody heard , or , at least , nobody answered her .
Winthrop , however , or its environs -- for young men are , sometimes to be met with , strolling about near home -- was their destination ; and after another half mile of gradual ascent through large enclosures , where the ploughs at work , and the fresh made path spoke the farmer counteracting the sweets of poetical despondence , and meaning to have spring again , they gained the summit of the most considerable hill , which parted Uppercross and Winthrop , and soon commanded a full view of the latter , at the foot of the hill on the other side .
Henrietta , conscious and ashamed , and seeing no cousin Charles walking along any path , or leaning against any gate , was ready to do as Mary wished ; but " No !"
Anne found a nice seat for her , on a dry sunny bank , under the hedge - row , in which she had no doubt of their still being , in some spot or other .
would I be turned back from doing a thing that I had determined to do , and that I knew to be right , by the airs and interference of such a person , or of any person I may say ?
If you value her conduct or happiness , infuse as much of your own spirit into her as you can .
Everything now marked out Louisa for Captain Wentworth ; nothing could be plainer ; and where many divisions were necessary , or even where they were not , they walked side by side nearly as much as the other two .
The Miss Musgroves were not at all tired , and Mary was either offended , by not being asked before any of the others , or what Louisa called the Elliot pride could not endure to make a third in a one horse chaise .
" He certainly means to have one or other of those two girls , Sophy ," said the Admiral ; " but there is no saying which .
They were come too late in the year for any amusement or variety which Lyme , as a public place , might offer .
They had been a year or two waiting for fortune and promotion .
Captain Wentworth believed it impossible for man to be more attached to woman than poor Benwick had been to Fanny Harville , or to be more deeply afflicted under the dreadful change .
Mrs Harville , a degree less polished than her husband , seemed , however , to have the same good feelings ; and nothing could be more pleasant than their desire of considering the whole party as friends of their own , because the friends of Captain Wentworth , or more kindly hospitable than their entreaties for their all promising to dine with them .
The varieties in the fitting - up of the rooms , where the common necessaries provided by the owner , in the common indifferent plight , were contrasted with some few articles of a rare species of wood , excellently worked up , and with something curious and valuable from all the distant countries Captain Harville had visited , were more than amusing to Anne ; connected as it all was with his profession , the fruit of its labours , the effect of its influence on his habits , the picture of repose and domestic happiness it presented , made it to her a something more , or less , than gratification .
For , though shy , he did not seem reserved ; it had rather the appearance of feelings glad to burst their usual restraints ; and having talked of poetry , the richness of the present age , and gone through a brief comparison of opinion as to the first - rate poets , trying to ascertain whether Marmion or The Lady of the Lake were to be preferred , and how ranked the Giaour and The Bride of Abydos ; and moreover , how the Giaour was to be pronounced , he showed himself so intimately acquainted with all the tenderest songs of the one poet , and all the impassioned descriptions of hopeless agony of the other ; he repeated , with such tremulous feeling , the various lines which imaged a broken heart , or a mind destroyed by wretchedness , and looked so entirely as if he meant to be understood , that she ventured to hope he did not always read only poetry , and to say , that she thought it was the misfortune of poetry to be seldom safely enjoyed by those who enjoyed it completely ; and that the strong feelings which alone could estimate it truly were the very feelings which ought to taste it but sparingly .
Anne did think on the question with perfect decision , and said as much in reply as her own feeling could accomplish , or as his seemed able to bear , for he was too much affected to renew the subject , and when he spoke again , it was of something totally different .
As to the wretched party left behind , it could scarcely be said which of the three , who were completely rational , was suffering most : Captain Wentworth , Anne , or Charles , who , really a very affectionate brother , hung over Louisa with sobs of grief , and could only turn his eyes from one sister , to see the other in a state as insensible , or to witness the hysterical agitations of his wife , calling on him for help which he could not give .
They were only concerned that the house could accommodate no more ; and yet perhaps , by " putting the children away in the maid ' s room , or swinging a cot somewhere ," they could hardly bear to think of not finding room for two or three besides , supposing they might wish to stay ; though , with regard to any attendance on Miss Musgrove , there need not be the least uneasiness in leaving her to Mrs Harville ' s care entirely .
Between these two , she could want no possible attendance by day or night .
Musgrove , either you or I must go ."
She who had not been able to remain in Louisa ' s room , or to look at her , without sufferings which made her worse than helpless !
There she had listened to Henrietta ' s schemes for Dr Shirley ' s leaving Uppercross ; farther on , she had first seen Mr Elliot ; a moment seemed all that could now be given to any one but Louisa , or those who were wrapt up in her welfare .
Captain Wentworth was on the watch for them , and a chaise and four in waiting , stationed for their convenience in the lowest part of the street ; but his evident surprise and vexation at the substitution of one sister for the other , the change in his countenance , the astonishment , the expressions begun and suppressed , with which Charles was listened to , made but a mortifying reception of Anne ; or must at least convince her that she was valued only as she could be useful to Louisa .
She had little difficulty ; it was soon determined that they would go ; go to - morrow , fix themselves at the inn , or get into lodgings , as it suited , and there remain till dear Louisa could be moved .
An hour ' s complete leisure for such reflections as these , on a dark November day , a small thick rain almost blotting out the very few objects ever to be discerned from the windows , was enough to make the sound of Lady Russell ' s carriage exceedingly welcome ; and yet , though desirous to be gone , she could not quit the Mansion House , or look an adieu to the Cottage , with its black , dripping and comfortless veranda , or even notice through the misty glasses the last humble tenements of the village , without a saddened heart .
But happily , either Anne was improved in plumpness and looks , or Lady Russell fancied her so ; and Anne , in receiving her compliments on the occasion , had the amusement of connecting them with the silent admiration of her cousin , and of hoping that she was to be blessed with a second spring of youth and beauty .
Their concerns had been sunk under those of Uppercross ; and when Lady Russell reverted to their former hopes and fears , and spoke her satisfaction in the house in Camden Place , which had been taken , and her regret that Mrs Clay should still be with them , Anne would have been ashamed to have it known how much more she was thinking of Lyme and Louisa Musgrove , and all her acquaintance there ; how much more interesting to her was the home and the friendship of the Harvilles and Captain Benwick , than her own father ' s house in Camden Place , or her own sister ' s intimacy with Mrs Clay .
The first three or four days passed most quietly , with no circumstance to mark them excepting the receipt of a note or two from Lyme , which found their way to Anne , she could not tell how , and brought a rather improving account of Louisa .
And so you must judge for yourself , whether it would be better for you to go about the house or not ."
So ended all danger to Anne of meeting Captain Wentworth at Kellynch Hall , or of seeing him in company with her friend .
We asked him to come home with us for a day or two : Charles undertook to give him some shooting , and he seemed quite delighted , and , for my part , I thought it was all settled ; when behold !
But Mary did not give into it very graciously , whether from not considering Captain Benwick entitled by birth and situation to be in love with an Elliot , or from not wanting to believe Anne a greater attraction to Uppercross than herself , must be left to be guessed .
His head is full of some books that he is reading upon your recommendation , and he wants to talk to you about them ; he has found out something or other in one of them which he thinks -- oh !
" He will sit poring over his book , and not know when a person speaks to him , or when one drop ' s one ' s scissors , or anything that happens .
Mary spoke with animation of their meeting with , or rather missing , Mr Elliot so extraordinarily .
He had not seen Louisa ; and was so extremely fearful of any ill consequence to her from an interview , that he did not press for it at all ; and , on the contrary , seemed to have a plan of going away for a week or ten days , till her head was stronger .
Lady Russell could not hear the door - bell without feeling that it might be his herald ; nor could Anne return from any stroll of solitary indulgence in her father ' s grounds , or any visit of charity in the village , without wondering whether she might see him or hear of him .
He was either less disposed for it than Charles had imagined , or he was too shy ; and after giving him a week ' s indulgence , Lady Russell determined him to be unworthy of the interest which he had been beginning to excite .
Everybody has their taste in noises as well as in other matters ; and sounds are quite innoxious , or most distressing , by their sort rather than their quantity .
Their house was undoubtedly the best in Camden Place ; their drawing - rooms had many decided advantages over all the others which they had either seen or heard of , and the superiority was not less in the style of the fitting - up , or the taste of the furniture .
Upon the hint of having spoken disrespectfully or carelessly of the family and the family honours , he was quite indignant .
This was an article not to be entered on by himself ; but a very intimate friend of his , a Colonel Wallis , a highly respectable man , perfectly the gentleman , ( and not an ill - looking man , Sir Walter added ), who was living in very good style in Marlborough Buildings , and had , at his own particular request , been admitted to their acquaintance through Mr Elliot , had mentioned one or two things relative to the marriage , which made a material difference in the discredit of it .
All that sounded extravagant or irrational in the progress of the reconciliation might have no origin but in the language of the relators .
Most earnestly did she wish that he might not be too nice , or too observant if Elizabeth were his object ; and that Elizabeth was disposed to believe herself so , and that her friend Mrs Clay was encouraging the idea , seemed apparent by a glance or two between them , while Mr Elliot ' s frequent visits were talked of .
He had frequently observed , as he walked , that one handsome face would be followed by thirty , or five - and - thirty frights ; and once , as he had stood in a shop on Bond Street , he had counted eighty - seven women go by , one after another , without there being a tolerable face among them .
Anne was considering whether she should venture to suggest that a gown , or a cap , would not be liable to any such misuse , when a knock at the door suspended everything .
" The notions of a young man of one or two and twenty ," said he , " as to what is necessary in manners to make him quite the thing , are more absurd , I believe , than those of any other set of beings in the world .
The elegant little clock on the mantel - piece had struck " eleven with its silver sounds ," and the watchman was beginning to be heard at a distance telling the same tale , before Mr Elliot or any of them seemed to feel that he had been there long .
he was surprised at that ;" and added , " certainly you cannot do better than to continue as you are ; you cannot be better than well ; or I should recommend Gowland , the constant use of Gowland , during the spring months .
As Mr Elliot became known to her , she grew more charitable , or more indifferent , towards the others .
and could not seriously picture to herself a more agreeable or estimable man .
He had strong feelings of family attachment and family honour , without pride or weakness ; he lived with the liberality of a man of fortune , without display ; he judged for himself in everything essential , without defying public opinion in any point of worldly decorum .
He was steady , observant , moderate , candid ; never run away with by spirits or by selfishness , which fancied itself strong feeling ; and yet , with a sensibility to what was amiable and lovely , and a value for all the felicities of domestic life , which characters of fancied enthusiasm and violent agitation seldom really possess .
It was now some years since Anne had begun to learn that she and her excellent friend could sometimes think differently ; and it did not surprise her , therefore , that Lady Russell should see nothing suspicious or inconsistent , nothing to require more motives than appeared , in Mr Elliot ' s great desire of a reconciliation .
There was no superiority of manner , accomplishment , or understanding .
We must feel that every addition to your father ' s society , among his equals or superiors , may be of use in diverting his thoughts from those who are beneath him ."
She mentioned nothing of what she had heard , or what she intended , at home .
Neither the dissipations of the past -- and she had lived very much in the world -- nor the restrictions of the present , neither sickness nor sorrow seemed to have closed her heart or ruined her spirits .
She watched , observed , reflected , and finally determined that this was not a case of fortitude or of resignation only .
She had seen too much of the world , to expect sudden or disinterested attachment anywhere , but her illness had proved to her that her landlady had a character to preserve , and would not use her ill ; and she had been particularly fortunate in her nurse , as a sister of her landlady , a nurse by profession , and who had always a home in that house when unemployed , chanced to be at liberty just in time to attend her .
As soon as I could use my hands she taught me to knit , which has been a great amusement ; and she put me in the way of making these little thread - cases , pin - cushions and card - racks , which you always find me so busy about , and which supply me with the means of doing a little good to one or two very poor families in this neighbourhood .
Everybody ' s heart is open , you know , when they have recently escaped from severe pain , or are recovering the blessing of health , and Nurse Rooke thoroughly understands when to speak .
And it is not merely in its follies , that they are well read ; for they see it occasionally under every circumstance that can be most interesting or affecting .
" I do not suppose the situation my friend Mrs Rooke is in at present , will furnish much either to interest or edify me .
There was never any burst of feeling , any warmth of indignation or delight , at the evil or good of others .
She felt that she could so much more depend upon the sincerity of those who sometimes looked or said a careless or a hasty thing , than of those whose presence of mind never varied , whose tongue never slipped .
Lady Russell saw either less or more than her young friend , for she saw nothing to excite distrust .
I can leave them at the Great House very well , for a month or six weeks .
Charles heard it quite by chance ; they have not had the civility to give me any notice , or of offering to take anything .
She could not endure the idea of treachery or levity , or anything akin to ill usage between him and his friend .
He was not at all ashamed of the acquaintance , and did , in fact , think and talk a great deal more about the Admiral , than the Admiral ever thought or talked about him .
She always watched them as long as she could , delighted to fancy she understood what they might be talking of , as they walked along in happy independence , or equally delighted to see the Admiral ' s hearty shake of the hand when he encountered an old friend , and observe their eagerness of conversation when occasionally forming into a little knot of the navy , Mrs Croft looking as intelligent and keen as any of the officers around her .
Anne was too much engaged with Lady Russell to be often walking herself ; but it so happened that one morning , about a week or ten days after the Croft ' s arrival , it suited her best to leave her friend , or her friend ' s carriage , in the lower part of the town , and return alone to Camden Place , and in walking up Milsom Street she had the good fortune to meet with the Admiral .
Can I go anywhere for you , or with you ?
We are always meeting with some old friend or other ; the streets full of them every morning ; sure to have plenty of chat ; and then we get away from them all , and shut ourselves in our lodgings , and draw in our chairs , and are snug as if we were at Kellynch , ay , or as we used to be even at North Yarmouth and Deal .
I should never be out if they were all Sophys , or something of that sort .
" Not at all , not at all ; there is not an oath or a murmur from beginning to end ."
I should be very sorry that such a friendship as has subsisted between him and Captain Benwick should be destroyed , or even wounded , by a circumstance of this sort ."
She therefore satisfied herself with common - place remarks or quiet attention , and the Admiral had it all his own way .
She left her seat , she would go ; one half of her should not be always so much wiser than the other half , or always suspecting the other of being worse than it was .
She could not have called it either cold or friendly , or anything so certainly as embarrassed .
Time had changed him , or Louisa had changed him .
There was consciousness of some sort or other .
He looked very well , not as if he had been suffering in health or spirits , and he talked of Uppercross , of the Musgroves , nay , even of Louisa , and had even a momentary look of his own arch significance as he named her ; but yet it was Captain Wentworth not comfortable , not easy , not able to feign that he was .
She could not understand his present feelings , whether he were really suffering much from disappointment or not ; and till that point were settled , she could not be quite herself .
Another circumstance very essential for her to know , was how long he meant to be in Bath ; he had not mentioned it , or she could not recollect it .
She could thoroughly comprehend the sort of fascination he must possess over Lady Russell ' s mind , the difficulty it must be for her to withdraw her eyes , the astonishment she must be feeling that eight or nine years should have passed over him , and in foreign climes and in active service too , without robbing him of one personal grace !
Anne sighed and blushed and smiled , in pity and disdain , either at her friend or herself .
A day or two passed without producing anything .
The theatre or the rooms , where he was most likely to be , were not fashionable enough for the Elliots , whose evening amusements were solely in the elegant stupidity of private parties , in which they were getting more and more engaged ; and Anne , wearied of such a state of stagnation , sick of knowing nothing , and fancying herself stronger because her strength was not tried , was quite impatient for the concert evening .
Either from the consciousness , however , that his friend had recovered , or from other consciousness , he went no farther ; and Anne who , in spite of the agitated voice in which the latter part had been uttered , and in spite of all the various noises of the room , the almost ceaseless slam of the door , and ceaseless buzz of persons walking through , had distinguished every word , was struck , gratified , confused , and beginning to breathe very quick , and feel an hundred things in a moment .
" This ," said she , " is nearly the sense , or rather the meaning of the words , for certainly the sense of an Italian love - song must not be talked of , but it is as nearly the meaning as I can give ; for I do not pretend to understand the language .
" No , no , some time or other , perhaps , but not now .
The others returned , the room filled again , benches were reclaimed and repossessed , and another hour of pleasure or of penance was to be sat out , another hour of music was to give delight or the gapes , as real or affected taste for it prevailed .
How she might have felt had there been no Captain Wentworth in the case , was not worth enquiry ; for there was a Captain Wentworth ; and be the conclusion of the present suspense good or bad , her affection would be his for ever .
Everybody of any consequence or notoriety in Bath was well know by name to Mrs Smith .
I am sure you have , somehow or other , imbibed such a notion .
As it was , she instantly submitted , and with all the semblance of seeing nothing beyond ; and Anne , eager to escape farther notice , was impatient to know why Mrs Smith should have fancied she was to marry Mr Elliot ; where she could have received the idea , or from whom she could have heard it .
Was not it Mrs Speed , as usual , or the maid ?
You might , some time or other , be differently affected towards him .
Mr Elliot is a man without heart or conscience ; a designing , wary , cold - blooded being , who thinks only of himself ; whom for his own interest or ease , would be guilty of any cruelty , or any treachery , that could be perpetrated without risk of his general character .
He is totally beyond the reach of any sentiment of justice or compassion .
I was privy to all the fors and againsts ; I was the friend to whom he confided his hopes and plans ; and though I did not know his wife previously , her inferior situation in society , indeed , rendered that impossible , yet I knew her all her life afterwards , or at least till within the last two years of her life , and can answer any question you may wish to put ."
He was determined , at least , not to mar it by an imprudent marriage ; and I know it was his belief ( whether justly or not , of course I cannot decide ), that your father and sister , in their civilities and invitations , were designing a match between the heir and the young lady , and it was impossible that such a match should have answered his ideas of wealth and independence .
When one lives in the world , a man or woman ' s marrying for money is too common to strike one as it ought .
She was a fine woman , had had a decent education , was brought forward by some cousins , thrown by chance into Mr Elliot ' s company , and fell in love with him ; and not a difficulty or a scruple was there on his side , with respect to her birth .
She was obliged to recollect that her seeing the letter was a violation of the laws of honour , that no one ought to be judged or to be known by such testimonies , that no private correspondence could bear the eye of others , before she could recover calmness enough to return the letter which she had been meditating over , and say --
It does not come to me in quite so direct a line as that ; it takes a bend or two , but nothing of consequence .
Facts or opinions which are to pass through the hands of so many , to be misconceived by folly in one , and ignorance in another , can hardly have much truth left ."
You will soon be able to judge of the general credit due , by listening to some particulars which you can yourself immediately contradict or confirm .
Did he see you last summer or autumn , ` somewhere down in the west ,' to use her own words , without knowing it to be you ?"
If there is anything in my story which you know to be either false or improbable , stop me .
" This was the light in which it appeared to those who knew the family , long before you returned to it ; and Colonel Wallis had his eye upon your father enough to be sensible of it , though he did not then visit in Camden Place ; but his regard for Mr Elliot gave him an interest in watching all that was going on there , and when Mr Elliot came to Bath for a day or two , as he happened to do a little before Christmas , Colonel Wallis made him acquainted with the appearance of things , and the reports beginning to prevail .
Having long had as much money as he could spend , nothing to wish for on the side of avarice or indulgence , he has been gradually learning to pin his happiness upon the consequence he is heir to .
" Yes ," said Anne , " you tell me nothing which does not accord with what I have known , or could imagine .
I should like to know his present opinion , as to the probability of the event he has been in dread of ; whether he considers the danger to be lessening or not ."
But since he must be absent some time or other , I do not perceive how he can ever be secure while she holds her present influence .
With a confidence in Mr Elliot ' s regard , more creditable to his feelings than his judgement , Mr Smith had appointed him the executor of his will ; but Mr Elliot would not act , and the difficulties and distress which this refusal had heaped on her , in addition to the inevitable sufferings of her situation , had been such as could not be related without anguish of spirit , or listened to without corresponding indignation .
In every other respect , in looking around her , or penetrating forward , she saw more to distrust and to apprehend .
His attentive deference to her father , contrasted with his former language , was odious ; and when she thought of his cruel conduct towards Mrs Smith , she could hardly bear the sight of his present smiles and mildness , or the sound of his artificial good sentiments .
It was a great object to her to escape all enquiry or eclat ; but it was her intention to be as decidedly cool to him as might be compatible with their relationship ; and to retrace , as quietly as she could , the few steps of unnecessary intimacy she had been gradually led along .
So much was pretty soon understood ; but till Sir Walter and Elizabeth were walking Mary into the other drawing - room , and regaling themselves with her admiration , Anne could not draw upon Charles ' s brain for a regular history of their coming , or an explanation of some smiling hints of particular business , which had been ostentatiously dropped by Mary , as well as of some apparent confusion as to whom their party consisted of .
He had begun to talk of it a week ago ; and by way of doing something , as shooting was over , Charles had proposed coming with him , and Mrs Harville had seemed to like the idea of it very much , as an advantage to her husband ; but Mary could not bear to be left , and had made herself so unhappy about it , that for a day or two everything seemed to be in suspense , or at an end .
He answered rather hesitatingly , " Yes , I believe I do ; very much recovered ; but she is altered ; there is no running or jumping about , no laughing or dancing ; it is quite different .
If one happens only to shut the door a little hard , she starts and wriggles like a young dab - chick in the water ; and Benwick sits at her elbow , reading verses , or whispering to her , all day long ."
She had no demands on her father or sister , and her consequence was just enough increased by their handsome drawing - rooms .
She was entreated to give them as much of her time as possible , invited for every day and all day long , or rather claimed as part of the family ; and , in return , she naturally fell into all her wonted ways of attention and assistance , and on Charles ' s leaving them together , was listening to Mrs Musgrove ' s history of Louisa , and to Henrietta ' s of herself , giving opinions on business , and recommendations to shops ; with intervals of every help which Mary required , from altering her ribbon to settling her accounts ; from finding her keys , and assorting her trinkets , to trying to convince her that she was not ill - used by anybody ; which Mary , well amused as she generally was , in her station at a window overlooking the entrance to the Pump Room , could not but have her moments of imagining .
Her distress returned , however , on perceiving smiles and intelligent glances pass between two or three of the lady visitors , as if they believed themselves quite in the secret .
He has changed his hour of going , I suppose , that is all , or I may be mistaken , I might not attend ;" and walked back to her chair , recomposed , and with the comfortable hope of having acquitted herself well .
The comfort , the freedom , the gaiety of the room was over , hushed into cold composure , determined silence , or insipid talk , to meet the heartless elegance of her father and sister .
Promising to be with them the whole of the following morning , therefore , she closed the fatigues of the present by a toilsome walk to Camden Place , there to spend the evening chiefly in listening to the busy arrangements of Elizabeth and Mrs Clay for the morrow ' s party , the frequent enumeration of the persons invited , and the continually improving detail of all the embellishments which were to make it the most completely elegant of its kind in Bath , while harassing herself with the never - ending question , of whether Captain Wentworth would come or not ?
She generally thought he would come , because she generally thought he ought ; but it was a case which she could not so shape into any positive act of duty or discretion , as inevitably to defy the suggestions of very opposite feelings .
It was transient : cleared away in an instant ; but Anne could imagine she read there the consciousness of having , by some complication of mutual trick , or some overbearing authority of his , been obliged to attend ( perhaps for half an hour ) to his lectures and restrictions on her designs on Sir Walter .
He was full of ` to - morrow ,' and it is very evident that I have been full of it too , ever since I entered the house , and learnt the extension of your plan and all that had happened , or my seeing him could never have gone so entirely out of my head ."
She was deep in the happiness of such misery , or the misery of such happiness , instantly .
It is all very well , I used to say , for young people to be engaged , if there is a certainty of their being able to marry in six months , or even in twelve ; but a long engagement --"
" Yes , dear ma ' am ," said Mrs Croft , " or an uncertain engagement , an engagement which may be long .
You have always a profession , pursuits , business of some sort or other , to take you back into the world immediately , and continual occupation and change soon weaken impressions ."
I will not allow it to be more man ' s nature than woman ' s to be inconstant and forget those they do love , or have loved .
We each begin , probably , with a little bias towards our own sex ; and upon that bias build every circumstance in favour of it which has occurred within our own circle ; many of which circumstances ( perhaps those very cases which strike us the most ) may be precisely such as cannot be brought forward without betraying a confidence , or in some respect saying what should not be said ."
All the privilege I claim for my own sex ( it is not a very enviable one ; you need not covet it ), is that of loving longest , when existence or when hope is gone ."
Captain Wentworth was folding up a letter in great haste , and either could not or would not answer fully .
" I must go , uncertain of my fate ; but I shall return hither , or follow your party , as soon as possible .
A word , a look , will be enough to decide whether I enter your father ' s house this evening or never ."
Would they only have gone away , and left her in the quiet possession of that room it would have been her cure ; but to have them all standing or waiting around her was distracting , and in desperation , she said she would go home .
He joined them ; but , as if irresolute whether to join or to pass on , said nothing , only looked .
Only to Gay Street , or farther up the town ?"
That had begun to operate in the very hour of first meeting her in Bath ; that had returned , after a short suspension , to ruin the concert ; and that had influenced him in everything he had said and done , or omitted to say and do , in the last four - and - twenty hours .
It had been gradually yielding to the better hopes which her looks , or words , or actions occasionally encouraged ; it had been vanquished at last by those sentiments and those tones which had reached him while she talked with Captain Harville ; and under the irresistible governance of which he had seized a sheet of paper , and poured out his feelings .
Of what he had then written , nothing was to be retracted or qualified .
In his preceding attempts to attach himself to Louisa Musgrove ( the attempts of angry pride ), he protested that he had for ever felt it to be impossible ; that he had not cared , could not care , for Louisa ; though till that day , till the leisure for reflection which followed it , he had not understood the perfect excellence of the mind with which Louisa ' s could so ill bear a comparison , or the perfect unrivalled hold it possessed over his own .
He would gladly weaken , by any fair means , whatever feelings or speculations concerning him might exist ; and he went , therefore , to his brother ' s , meaning after a while to return to Kellynch , and act as circumstances might require .
The moment of her stepping forward in the Octagon Room to speak to him : the moment of Mr Elliot ' s appearing and tearing her away , and one or two subsequent moments , marked by returning hope or increasing despondency , were dwelt on with energy .
Even if your own feelings were reluctant or indifferent , to consider what powerful supports would be his !
" I should have thought ," said Anne , " that my manner to yourself might have spared you much or all of this ."
Glowing and lovely in sensibility and happiness , and more generally admired than she thought about or cared for , she had cheerful or forbearing feelings for every creature around her .
It was , perhaps , one of those cases in which advice is good or bad only as the event decides ; and for myself , I certainly never should , in any circumstance of tolerable similarity , give such advice .
It is not that I did not think of it , or desire it , as what could alone crown all my other success ; but I was proud , too proud to ask again .
I shut my eyes , and would not understand you , or do you justice .
When any two young people take it into their heads to marry , they are pretty sure by perseverance to carry their point , be they ever so poor , or ever so imprudent , or ever so little likely to be necessary to each other ' s ultimate comfort .
He was now esteemed quite worthy to address the daughter of a foolish , spendthrift baronet , who had not had principle or sense enough to maintain himself in the situation in which Providence had placed him , and who could give his daughter at present but a small part of the share of ten thousand pounds which must be hers hereafter .
It was creditable to have a sister married , and she might flatter herself with having been greatly instrumental to the connexion , by keeping Anne with her in the autumn ; and as her own sister must be better than her husband ' s sisters , it was very agreeable that Captain Wentworth should be a richer man than either Captain Benwick or Charles Hayter .
She has abilities , however , as well as affections ; and it is now a doubtful point whether his cunning , or hers , may finally carry the day ; whether , after preventing her from being the wife of Sir Walter , he may not be wheedled and caressed at last into making her the wife of Sir William .
She was their earliest visitor in their settled life ; and Captain Wentworth , by putting her in the way of recovering her husband ' s property in the West Indies , by writing for her , acting for her , and seeing her through all the petty difficulties of the case with the activity and exertion of a fearless man and a determined friend , fully requited the services which she had rendered , or ever meant to render , to his wife .
