From house to house he goes , A messenger small and slight , And whether it rains or snows , He sleeps outside in the night .
" If I could but make their work easier , or give the hungry ones food , or the thirsty a drink !"
They hadn ' t any little girls or any little boys , at all .
His mother and his father cherish him ; he nestles on their knees in the red firelight at night , while they read to him lovely stories , or sing sweet old songs to him ,-- the happy little boy !
The villagers heard him , but they thought it was another mean trick ; no one paid the least attention , or went near him .
" When I don ' t see any little crabs on the shore , or sticking up out of the water , I usually see them blowing bubbles from under the water ; the little bubbles go _puff , puff , puff_ , and then they go _pop , pop , pop_ , and they show me where the little juicy crabs are , so I can put my paw in and catch them .
Now the old Alligator found this out , and he made up his mind to have the little Jackal for supper , or to die trying .
The old Alligator thought to himself that he must certainly pretend to be the little House , or the little Jackal would never come in .
They had a wonderful , wise father , who knew stories to tell , and who taught them their lessons in such a beautiful way that it was better than play ; they had a lovely , merry , kind mother , who was never too tired to help them work or watch them play ; and they had all the great green country to play in .
But better than fun or writing Louisa loved her mother , and by and by , as the little girl began to grow into a big girl , she felt very sad to see her dear mother work so hard .
When she had unkind or dissatisfied thoughts , she tried to get rid of them by playing they were enemies of the kingdom ; and she drove them out with soldiers ; the soldiers were patience , duty , and love .
It happened that I did not read it for myself or hear it again during my childhood .
In the mental search for buried treasure which ensued , I came upon one or two word - impressions of the experiences of the Little Fir Tree , and forthwith wove them into what I supposed to be something of a reproduction of the original .
Afterward I told the story to a good many children , at one time or another , and it gradually took the shape it has here .
Whenever one had been cut down and carried away the others talked about it , and nodded their heads , and the Little Fir Tree listened , and heard them say that when you were carried away so , you might become the mast of a mighty ship , and go far away over the ocean , and see many wonderful things ; or you might be part of a fine house in a great city , and see much of life .
And when he was being carried away on the sledge he lay wondering , _so_ contentedly , whether he should be the mast of a ship or part of a fine city house .
And the happy Little Fir Tree spent all his time wondering what it could be that he was just little enough for ; he knew it could hardly be a mast or a house , since he was going away with children .
The Little Fir Tree had a sudden sight of a long room with many little white beds in it , of children propped up on pillows in the beds , and of other children in great wheeled chairs , and others hobbling about or sitting in little chairs .
And they gave them terrible tasks to do , without proper rest , or food , or clothes .
It is not fair or just that you should eat me , when I set you free ."
" Brother Banyan ," said the Brahmin , eagerly , " does it seem to you right or just that this Tiger should eat me , when I set him free from his cage ?"
Now that I am old and weak and cannot work , he leaves me without food or water , to die by the wayside .
said the Brahmin , " does it seem at all right or fair to you that this Tiger should eat me up , when I have just now let him out of a cage ?"
Do you think it right or fair that this Tiger should eat me , when I set him free from a terrible cage ?"
But you know -- if you don ' t , you will when you are grown up -- that no matter how clever you are , sooner or later you surely meet some one who is more clever .
When they had gone , leaving the poor Camel half killed , the little Jackal came dancing back from somewhere or other .
The Nightingale sang so beautifully that everybody who heard her remembered her song better than anything else that he heard or saw .
Behind the cottage were apple trees , a plum tree , and two or three pear trees ; then came a stretch of rough grass , and then a stone wall , with a gate leading into the fields .
" Even some of the trees look like this when they first come through ; you would not think a birch tree could look like a vegetable or a flower , would you ?
But it does , at first ; it looks so much like these things that in the great nurseries , where trees are raised for forests and parks , the workmen have to be very carefully trained , or else they would pull up the trees when they are weeding .
There is no power on earth or in heaven which can put me down from my seat !"
In his fluttering rags , without hat or cloak , not knowing what strange thing had happened to him , King Robert rushed to his palace gates , pushed aside the startled servants , and hurried , blind with rage , up the wide stair and through the great corridors , toward the room where he could hear the sound of his courtiers ' voices .
I can make him the richest , the most beautiful , or the most powerful prince in the world ; choose ."
Of what use will it be to him to be beautiful , rich , or powerful , if he grows into a bad man ?
Whenever he was crossed , or could not have his own way instantly , he flew into a passion .
It seemed as if some one must have stolen it , or as if the farmer had been wandering in his wits .
Even in Europe there are not many monuments to women , and most of the few are to great queens or princesses , very beautiful and very richly dressed .
She used to sit at the open door of her office , in a calico gown and a little shawl , and give a good word to everybody , rich or poor .
Whether they were for white children or black , for Jews , Catholics , or Protestants , made no difference ; for Margaret always said , " They are all orphans alike ."
And just think , dears , that splendid , wise will was signed with a cross instead of a name , for Margaret had never learned to read or write !
So they made a statue of her , just as she used to look , sitting in her own office door , or driving in her own little cart .
The Dagda , with two or three of his warriors , had followed hard on their track .
" Would you make me a hole ," said the old white garraun , " where I could go in to hide whenever the people come to fetch me to the mill or the kiln , so that they won ' t see me ; for they tire me out doing work for them ?"
Directly the Giant - Maidens were brought before Frode , and before they had rested after their long journey , or satisfied their hunger , he bade them go to the mill , and grind for him gold and peace and happiness .
The greedy man could not bear to see even an instant ' s pause , and he came out of the shadow , and bade them , with harsh words , go on grinding , and cease not except for so long as the cuckoo was silent , or while he himself sang a song .
And when it came nearer , they saw that it was a most beautiful lady , robed in floating garments as fine as cobwebs and wearing on her head a crown so bright that no one could tell whether it was of diamonds or of dew .
But when King Saul died , the people chose David for their king , because there was no one so brave , so wise , or so faithful to God .
After a battle , or when it was a holiday , or when he was very thankful for something , King David used to make songs , and sing them before the people .
He lived high up on the mountainside in a tiny cave ; his food was roots and acorns , a bit of bread given by a peasant , or a cheese brought by a woman who wanted his prayers ; his work was praying , and thinking about God .
The face he saw was thin and tired , and though it kept a smile or a grin for the people , it seemed very sad to the hermit .
" Once ," said the man , " our band broke into a convent garden and stole away one of the nuns , to sell as a slave or to keep for a ransom .
They told him the little there was to tell : they had worked hard always , in the fields with their husbands , or in the house ; they had many children ; they had seen hard times ,-- sickness , sorrow ; but they had never despaired .
Still the woman hesitated ; but at last she said , timidly , " It is not much to tell , father , only this , that it is twenty years since my sister - in - law and I came to live together in the house ; we have brought up our families here ; and in all the twenty years there has never been a cross word between us , or a look that was less than kind ."
Simple worth is far better than rank or wealth without modesty and unselfishness -- and there is no _true_ beauty where these virtues are absent !"
