Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank , and of having nothing to do : once or twice she had peeped into the book her sister was reading , but it had no pictures or conversations in it , ' and what is the use of a book ,' thought Alice ' without pictures or conversation ?'
( when she thought it over afterwards , it occurred to her that she ought to have wondered at this , but at the time it all seemed quite natural ); but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT - POCKET , and looked at it , and then hurried on , Alice started to her feet , for it flashed across her mind that she had never before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat - pocket , or a watch to take out of it , and burning with curiosity , she ran across the field after it , and fortunately was just in time to see it pop down a large rabbit - hole under the hedge .
Either the well was very deep , or she fell very slowly , for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going to happen next .
Let me see : that would be four thousand miles down , I think --' ( for , you see , Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom , and though this was not a VERY good opportunity for showing off her knowledge , as there was no one to listen to her , still it was good practice to say it over ) '-- yes , that ' s about the right distance -- but then I wonder what Latitude or Longitude I ' ve got to ?'
( Alice had no idea what Latitude was , or Longitude either , but thought they were nice grand words to say .)
Please , Ma ' am , is this New Zealand or Australia ?'
either the locks were too large , or the key was too small , but at any rate it would not open any of them .
There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door , so she went back to the table , half hoping she might find another key on it , or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes : this time she found a little bottle on it , (' which certainly was not here before ,' said Alice ,) and round the neck of the bottle was a paper label , with the words ' DRINK ME ' beautifully printed on it in large letters .
' No , I ' ll look first ,' she said , ' and see whether it ' s marked " poison " or not '; for she had read several nice little histories about children who had got burnt , and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things , all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them : such as , that a red - hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long ; and that if you cut your finger VERY deeply with a knife , it usually bleeds ; and she had never forgotten that , if you drink much from a bottle marked ' poison ,' it is almost certain to disagree with you , sooner or later .
I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself about you : you must manage the best way you can ;-- but I must be kind to them ,' thought Alice , ' or perhaps they won ' t walk the way I want to go !
Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a little way off , and she swam nearer to make out what it was : at first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus , but then she remembered how small she was now , and she soon made out that it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself .
Do come back again , and we won ' t talk about cats or dogs either , if you don ' t like them !'
' I know what " it " means well enough , when I find a thing ,' said the Duck : ' it ' s generally a frog or a worm .
However , when they had been running half an hour or so , and were quite dry again , the Dodo suddenly called out ' The race is over !'
Said the mouse to the cur , " Such a trial , dear Sir , With no jury or judge , would be wasting our breath ."
By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with a table in the window , and on it ( as she had hoped ) a fan and two or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves : she took up the fan and a pair of the gloves , and was just going to leave the room , when her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking - glass .
' I know SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen ,' she said to herself , ' whenever I eat or drink anything ; so I ' ll just see what this bottle does .
She did not get hold of anything , but she heard a little shriek and a fall , and a crash of broken glass , from which she concluded that it was just possible it had fallen into a cucumber - frame , or something of the sort .
After a minute or two , they began moving about again , and Alice heard the Rabbit say , ' A barrowful will do , to begin with .'
I suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other ; but the great question is , what ?'
Alice looked all round her at the flowers and the blades of grass , but she did not see anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances .
She stretched herself up on tiptoe , and peeped over the edge of the mushroom , and her eyes immediately met those of a large caterpillar , that was sitting on the top with its arms folded , quietly smoking a long hookah , and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else .
Be off , or I ' ll kick you down stairs !'
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its mouth and yawned once or twice , and shook itself .
This was such a new idea to Alice , that she was quite silent for a minute or two , which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of adding , ' You ' re looking for eggs , I know THAT well enough ; and what does it matter to me whether you ' re a little girl or a serpent ?'
For a minute or two she stood looking at the house , and wondering what to do next , when suddenly a footman in livery came running out of the wood --( she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery : otherwise , judging by his face only , she would have called him a fish )-- and rapped loudly at the door with his knuckles .
And certainly there was a most extraordinary noise going on within -- a constant howling and sneezing , and every now and then a great crash , as if a dish or kettle had been broken to pieces .
'-- or next day , maybe ,' the Footman continued in the same tone , exactly as if nothing had happened .
The Duchess took no notice of them even when they hit her ; and the baby was howling so much already , that it was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not .
Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook , to see if she meant to take the hint ; but the cook was busily stirring the soup , and seemed not to be listening , so she went on again : ' Twenty - four hours , I THINK ; or is it twelve ?
The poor little thing was snorting like a steam - engine when she caught it , and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again , so that altogether , for the first minute or two , it was as much as she could do to hold it .
' IF I don ' t take this child away with me ,' thought Alice , ' they ' re sure to kill it in a day or two : wouldn ' t it be murder to leave it behind ?'
The poor little thing sobbed again ( or grunted , it was impossible to say which ), and they went on for some while in silence .
' You must be ,' said the Cat , ' or you wouldn ' t have come here .'
Alice waited a little , half expecting to see it again , but it did not appear , and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in which the March Hare was said to live .
' Did you say pig , or fig ?'
' And be quick about it ,' added the Hatter , ' or you ' ll be asleep again before it ' s done .'
' They lived on treacle ,' said the Dormouse , after thinking a minute or two .
The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it , and then said , ' It was a treacle - well .'
This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear : she got up in great disgust , and walked off ; the Dormouse fell asleep instantly , and neither of the others took the least notice of her going , though she looked back once or twice , half hoping that they would call after her : the last time she saw them , they were trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot .
said the Queen , pointing to the three gardeners who were lying round the rosetree ; for , you see , as they were lying on their faces , and the pattern on their backs was the same as the rest of the pack , she could not tell whether they were gardeners , or soldiers , or courtiers , or three of her own children .
The three soldiers wandered about for a minute or two , looking for them , and then quietly marched off after the others .
shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder , and people began running about in all directions , tumbling up against each other ; however , they got settled down in a minute or two , and the game began .
The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo : she succeeded in getting its body tucked away , comfortably enough , under her arm , with its legs hanging down , but generally , just as she had got its neck nicely straightened out , and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head , it WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face , with such a puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing : and when she had got its head down , and was going to begin again , it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled itself , and was in the act of crawling away : besides all this , there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to send the hedgehog to , and , as the doubled - up soldiers were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the ground , Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very difficult game indeed .
She was looking about for some way of escape , and wondering whether she could get away without being seen , when she noticed a curious appearance in the air : it puzzled her very much at first , but , after watching it a minute or two , she made it out to be a grin , and she said to herself ' It ' s the Cheshire Cat : now I shall have somebody to talk to .'
' It ' s no use speaking to it ,' she thought , ' till its ears have come , or at least one of them .'
The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties , great or small .
She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be executed for having missed their turns , and she did not like the look of things at all , as the game was in such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or not .
' I quite agree with you ,' said the Duchess ; ' and the moral of that is --" Be what you would seem to be "-- or if you ' d like it put more simply --" Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than what it might appear to others that what you were or might have been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared to them to be otherwise ."'
' Now , I give you fair warning ,' shouted the Queen , stamping on the ground as she spoke ; ' either you or your head must be off , and that in about half no time !
Those whom she sentenced were taken into custody by the soldiers , who of course had to leave off being arches to do this , so that by the end of half an hour or so there were no arches left , and all the players , except the King , the Queen , and Alice , were in custody and under sentence of execution .
' I never saw one , or heard of one ,' said Alice .
He looked at Alice , and tried to speak , but for a minute or two sobs choked his voice .
Who cares for fish , Game , or any other dish ?
She said this last word two or three times over to herself , being rather proud of it : for she thought , and rightly too , that very few little girls of her age knew the meaning of it at all .
' Give your evidence ,' said the King ; ' and don ' t be nervous , or I ' ll have you executed on the spot .'
' Give your evidence ,' the King repeated angrily , ' or I ' ll have you executed , whether you ' re nervous or not .'
' I ' m a poor man , your Majesty ,' the Hatter began , in a trembling voice , '-- and I hadn ' t begun my tea -- not above a week or so -- and what with the bread - and - butter getting so thin -- and the twinkling of the tea --'
' You MUST remember ,' remarked the King , ' or I ' ll have you executed .'
she exclaimed in a tone of great dismay , and began picking them up again as quickly as she could , for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head , and she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once and put back into the jury - box , or they would die .
You MUST have meant some mischief , or else you ' d have signed your name like an honest man .'
I gave her one , they gave him two , You gave us three or more ; They all returned from him to you , Though they were mine before .
If I or she should chance to be Involved in this affair , He trusts to you to set them free , Exactly as we were .
First , she dreamed of little Alice herself , and once again the tiny hands were clasped upon her knee , and the bright eager eyes were looking up into hers -- she could hear the very tones of her voice , and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes -- and still as she listened , or seemed to listen , the whole place around her became alive the strange creatures of her little sister ' s dream .
