In Thunder , Lightning , or in Raine ?
Liue you , or are you aught That man may question ?
i ' th ' name of truth Are ye fantasticall , or that indeed Which outwardly ye shew ?
Say from whence You owe this strange Intelligence , or why Vpon this blasted Heath you stop our way With such Prophetique greeting ?
The King hath happily receiu ' d , Macbeth , The newes of thy successe : and when he reades Thy personall Venture in the Rebels sight , His Wonders and his Prayses doe contend , Which should be thine , or his : silenc ' d with that , In viewing o ' re the rest o ' th ' selfe - same day , He findes thee in the stout Norweyan Rankes , Nothing afeard of what thy selfe didst make Strange Images of death , as thick as Tale Can post with post , and euery one did beare Thy prayses in his Kingdomes great defence , And powr ' d them downe before him
Whether he was combin ' d with those of Norway , Or did lyne the Rebell with hidden helpe , And vantage ; or that with both he labour ' d In his Countreyes wracke , I know not : But Treasons Capitall , confess ' d , and prou ' d , Haue ouerthrowne him
The Prince of Cumberland : that is a step , On which I must fall downe , or else o ' re - leape , For in my way it lyes .
Besides , this Duncane Hath borne his Faculties so meeke ; hath bin So cleere in his great Office , that his Vertues Will pleade like Angels , Trumpet - tongu ' d against The deepe damnation of his taking off : And Pitty , like a naked New - borne - Babe , Striding the blast , or Heauens Cherubin , hors ' d Vpon the sightlesse Curriors of the Ayre , Shall blow the horrid deed in euery eye , That teares shall drowne the winde .
Heare it not , Duncan , for it is a Knell , That summons thee to Heauen , or to Hell .
I haue drugg ' d their Possets , That Death and Nature doe contend about them , Whether they liue , or dye .
Ha , good Father , Thou seest the Heauens , as troubled with mans Act , Threatens his bloody Stage : byth ' Clock ' tis Day , And yet darke Night strangles the trauailing Lampe : Is ' t Nights predominance , or the Dayes shame , That Darknesse does the face of Earth intombe , When liuing Light should kisse it ?
Goe not my Horse the better , I must become a borrower of the Night , For a darke houre , or twaine
And I another , So wearie with Disasters , tugg ' d with Fortune , That I would set my Life on any Chance , To mend it , or be rid on ' t
What man dare , I dare : Approach thou like the rugged Russian Beare , The arm ' d Rhinoceros , or th ' Hircan Tiger , Take any shape but that , and my firme Nerues Shall neuer tremble .
Come high or low : Thy Selfe and Office deaftly show .
Be Lyon metled , proud , and take no care : Who chafes , who frets , or where Conspirers are : Macbeth shall neuer vanquish ' d be , vntill Great Byrnam Wood , to high Dunsmane Hill Shall come against him .
' Tis two or three my Lord , that bring you word : Macduff is fled to England
You know not Whether it was his wisedome , or his feare
I take my leaue of you : Shall not be long but Ile be heere againe : Things at the worst will cease , or else climbe vpward , To what they were before .
It cannot Be call ' d our Mother , but our Graue ; where nothing But who knowes nothing , is once seene to smile : Where sighes , and groanes , and shrieks that rent the ayre Are made , not mark ' d : Where violent sorrow seemes A Moderne extasie : The Deadmans knell , Is there scarse ask ' d for who , and good mens liues Expire before the Flowers in their Caps , Dying , or ere they sicken
What concerne they , The generall cause , or is it a Fee - griefe Due to some single brest ?
Seyton , I am sick at hart , When I behold : Seyton , I say , this push Will cheere me euer , or dis - eate me now .
Pull ' t off I say , What Rubarb , Cyme , or what Purgatiue drugge Would scowre these English hence : hear ' st y of them ?
Such a one Am I to feare , or none .
